---
autogenerated: true
title: 89NorthLDI
layout: page
---

<table>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

89-North Laser Diode Illuminator (LDI)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Authors:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Elliot Steele

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Windows\*

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

All 89-North LDI models (LDI-7 and NIR tested)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Manufacturer Website:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

[89north.com](https://www.89north.com/fluorescence-microscopy-products-by-brand/89-north/ldi-laser-diode-illuminator/)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

TODO

</td>

</tr>

</table>

\* Communication is via serial over USB so in theory these drivers could
work on Mac and Linux, however, this has not been tested and may require
driver support from 89-North

## Introduction

These device adapters provide support for the control of the Laser Diode
Illuminator range of laser banks from 89-North from within MicroManager.
The adapters will automatically detect the available laser diodes and
allow control of each diode's intensity and shutter via MicroManager
properties. Alternatively, intensities can be controlled via analogue
voltage and shutters can be controlled via TTL. Integration with
MicroManager's auto-shutter feature is provided, allowing up to 4 diodes
to be toggled on and off in response to camera acquisition.

## Driver Installation

Follow the instructions provided by 89-North to install the LDI GUI
software. While this software is not required for using the LDI within
micromanager, installing it ensures that any required drivers are
installed on the target PC. It is recommended to verify that the LDI can
be operated via the LDI GUI software before attempting setup within
MicroManager.

TODO: Firmware update

## Setup

**Ensure the LDI GUI is not running before attempting to connect to the
LDI via MicroManager**

In the hardware configuration wizard, the LDI appears under the
89-North\_LDI heading. The serial port that the LDI is connected to is
the only pre-init property required (this can be determined from Windows
Device manager or the LDI GUI software). The default serial port
settings are correct but provided here for completeness

<table>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**AnswerTimeout:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

500.0000

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**BaudRate:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

9600

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**DataBits:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

8

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**DelayBetweenCharsMs:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

0.0000

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Handshaking:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Off

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Parity:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

None

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**StopBits:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

1

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Verbose:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

1

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## Properties

### Functional Mode

The **Functional Mode** property must be set to **RUN** before any laser
diodes can be turned on. When the LDI is first turned on, the
**Functional Mode** will be set to **WARMUP** while it heats the diodes
to the required temperatures, while in **WARMUP** mode the **Functional
Mode** property cannot be changed. The LDI reaching temperature is
indicated by a change in the colour of the indicator LED on the front of
the LDI from yellow to green. When the LDI reaches temperature it will
automatically transfer from **WARMUP** mode to **IDLE** mode (**note:**
this change is not automatically reflected in the **Functional Mode**
property, you must refresh the properties in the device property browser
to see this change).

-----

### XXX Intensity

The **XXX Intensity** properies control the intensity of the specified
laser (e.g., **470 Intensity** controls the intensity of the 470 nm
laser). Attempting to set an **XXX Intensity** setting when the
[Intensity Control](89NorthLDI#Intensity_Control "wikilink") property is
set to **EXT** will result in an error. Intensity is expressed as a
percentage of the maximum output of the laser diode, i.e., an intensity
of 15 on a laser diode with a maximum output of 1000 mW, corresponds to
an output of 150 mW. There is a [known
bug](89NorthLDI#Intensity_Sliders "wikilink") when controlling diode
intensity via the property slider.

-----

### XXX Shutter

The **XXX Shutter** properties provide manual control of the electronic
shutters on each of the diodes. Setting the property to **OPEN** will
open the shutter and allow the diode to emit, setting it to **CLOSED**
will close the shutter and prevent the diode from emitting. Only 4
diodes may be emitting simultaneously. Diodes will not emit if their
[Intensity](89NorthLDI#XXX_Intensity "wikilink") is set to 0, even if
the **Shutter** property is set to **OPEN**. Attempting to set an **XXX
Shutter** setting when the [Shutter
Control](89NorthLDI#Shutter_Control "wikilink") property is set to
**EXT** will result in an error. Diodes will not emit unless the
[Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink") setting is set
to **RUN**. For use with MicroManager's auto-shutter feature see the
[Auto Shutter Wavelength
X](89NorthLDI#Auto_Shutter_Wavelength_X "wikilink") properties.

If setting the **XXX Shutter** property to **OPEN** does not cause the
diode to emit, ensure that:

  - [Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink") is set to
    **RUN**
  - The corresponding [Intensity](89NorthLDI#XXX_Intensity "wikilink")
    setting is **not** 0
  - The [Shutter Control](89NorthLDI#Shutter_Control "wikilink")
    property is set to **PC**
  - Fewer than 4 other diodes are currently emitting
  - There is no LDI [Fault](89NorthLDI#Fault "wikilink") detected

-----

### XXX Shutter TTL Inverted

If set to **OFF**, a TTL high signal will open a diode's electronic
shutter and TTL low will close it. If set to **ON**, TTL low will open
the shutter and TTL high will close it. Has no effect if [Shutter
Control](89NorthLDI#Shutter_Control "wikilink") is set to **PC**.

-----

### Auto Shutter Wavelength X

The **Auto Shutter Wavelength X** properties provide integration with
MicroManager's auto-shutter feature by allowing the user to choose up to
4 diodes which will be toggled in response to auto-shutter commands. If
a wavelength is selected in one of the **Auto Shutter Wavelength**
properties then it will automatically be toggled on at the start of
camera exposure and off at the end.

For example the settings:

  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 1 : 470
  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 2 : None
  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 3 : None
  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 4 : None

Will turn on the 470 nm laser diode whenever a picture is taken
(assuming auto-shutter is enabled), whereas these settings:

  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 1 : 470
  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 2 : 405
  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 3 : 555
  - Auto Shutter Wavelength 4 : 640

Will turn on the 405 nm, 470 nm, 555 nm and 640 nm simultaneously. The
order in which the wavelengths are provided does not matter and they are
all toggled at the same time.

-----

### Intensity Control

Determines if the laser intensity should be controlled via MicroManager
properties (**PC**) or analogue voltage (**EXT**). If set to **EXT**
attempting to change an [Intensity](89NorthLDI#XXX_Intensity "wikilink")
property will result in an error.

-----

### Shutter Control

Determines if the TTL shutter should be controlled via MicroManager
properties (**PC**) or TTL voltage (**EXT**). If set to **EXT**
attempting to change a [Shutter](89NorthLDI#XXX_Shutter "wikilink")
property will result in an error.

-----

### Despeckler

Enables (**ON**) or disables (**OFF**) the built in laser despeckler. In
almost all circumstances it is desirable to have this property set to
**ON**.

-----

### Sleep Timer (Minutes)

How long before LDI will go into sleep mode after being left idle.

-----

### Fault

When the LDI detects a fault (e.g., a safety interlock being tripped),
it will automatically stop all lasers from emitting until the fault is
fixed and cleared. The existence of a fault is indicated by the LED
indicator on the front of the LDI turning red. When the LED indicator is
red, refreshing the properties will change the value of this property to
the error message indicating how to fix the fault. Once the fault is
fixed, this property can be set to **CLEAR** to tell the LDI that the
fault has been fixed. If the fault was successfully fixed the value of
this property will be returned to **NONE** and the LED indicator will no
longer be red. If the fault was not fixed, the error message will still
be visible.

-----

## Recommended Setup

### Single Wavelength with Auto Shutter

The most common use case is to be able to select a single wavelength to
respond to the auto shutter commands and to assign this as the channel
group. To enable this it is recommended that you create a group with the
following settings:

  - [Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink")
  - [Auto Shutter Wavelength
    1](89NorthLDI#Auto_Shutter_Wavelength_X "wikilink")

With the following presets:

**XXX nm** (where XXX is a desired wavelength):

  - [Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink") : **RUN**
  - [Auto Shutter Wavelength
    1](89NorthLDI#Auto_Shutter_Wavelength_X "wikilink") : **XXX**

**Off** :

  - [Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink") : **IDLE**
  - [Auto Shutter Wavelength
    1](89NorthLDI#Auto_Shutter_Wavelength_X "wikilink") : **NONE**

**Warmup** :

  - [Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink") :
    **WARMUP**
  - [Auto Shutter Wavelength
    1](89NorthLDI#Auto_Shutter_Wavelength_X "wikilink") : **NONE**

**Manual** :

  - [Functional Mode](89NorthLDI#Functional_Mode "wikilink") : **RUN**
  - [Auto Shutter Wavelength
    1](89NorthLDI#Auto_Shutter_Wavelength_X "wikilink") : **NONE**

The first preset is repeated for each of the desired wavelengths. The
**Off** and **Warmup** presets are optional but will provide an
indication of the state of the LDI when starting MicroManager. The
**Manual** preset is also optional. It keeps the LDI running but
disables auto-shutter, allowing for manual control via the
[Shutter](89NorthLDI#XXX_Shutter "wikilink") properties.

## Known Bugs

#### Intensity Sliders

There is an issue with the use of MicroManager's property sliders when
controlling the laser intensities. Clicking the up arrow will attempt to
increment the intensity by 0.1%, however, the LDI will truncate this
back to the previous integer value. For example, if the current
intensity value is 15%, pressing the up arrow will attempt to increment
the intensity to 15.1%, which will be truncated back to 15% by the LDI.
A similar effect happens when pressing the down arrow, however, in this
case the truncation will ultimately result in decreasing the laser power
by 1. This can be worked around either by dragging the slider, entering
the exact desired value or clicking in between the current slider
position and the up arrow button to increment by 1.

## Special Thanks

Special thanks to 89 North for providing the LDI used for development of
these device adapters free of charge as well as making engineers
available to answer questions and fix bugs. Additional thanks to Cairn
Research for providing introductions and helping facilitate the project.
