---
autogenerated: true
title: AgilentLaserCombiner
redirect_from: /wiki/AgilentLaserCombiner
layout: page
---

## Adapter for the Agilent Monolithic LaserCombiners (MLC400 and MLC400B)

<table cellspacing=3>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1" valign="top">

Interface to [Agilent Monolithic
LaserCombiners](http://www.home.agilent.com/agilent/techSupport.jspx?cc=US&lc=eng&nid=-33361.917948&pid=1765735&pageMode=OV)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows 32 and 64 bits

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

MLC400 and MLC400B

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Requires:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LaserCombinerSDK DLL provided by Agilent

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Available since version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.4.11

</td>
</tr>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Agilent Monolithic LaserCombiner can be controlled either using
external signals (digital and analogue control of the individual
laserlines) or using an internal micro-controller board that interfaces
to the computer through USB. The internal micro-controller board lets
you set the intensity and on/off states of the individual laser lines
directly, and controls the safety shutter, ND filters and fiber switcher
(if your unit has these). In addition, the board can tightly synchronize
light output with an external trigger (usually provided by the camera,
signalling camera exposures). The adapter and board support the
Micro-Manager sequence interface that can be used to change the
wavelength of the light output at very high speeds, synchronized with
camera exposures.

To use the adapter, you will need to copy the dll named
"[LaserCombinerSDK.dll](https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/trunk/DeviceAdapters/AgilentLaserCombiner/lib/LaserCombinerSDK.dll)"
(for 32 bit Windows) or
"[LaserCombinerSDK64.dll](https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/trunk/DeviceAdapters/AgilentLaserCombiner/lib/LaserCombinerSDK64.dll)"
(for 64 bit Windows) into the Micro-Manager directory. Select the
LC-Shutter and LC-SafetyShutter devices. It is most practical to add the
LC-SafetyShutter-State property to your System-Startup group and open it
there. Make sure that the LC-Shutter is set to internal control. If
synchronization with the external trigger does not work (i.e.,
LC-Shutter is open, laserline is selected, external trigger property is
on, TTL trigger is provided on the external trigger input, and no light
comes out of the fiber, then you will need an updated version of the
firmware (contact Agilent).

Modifications to this adapter on August 23 broke compatibility with
earlier configuration files. If you update, please build a new
configuration file.
