---
autogenerated: true
title: Andor SDK3
layout: page
---

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Summary:</p></th>
<th><p>Interfaces with Andor sCMOS cameras<br />
(Use <a href="Andor" title="wikilink">Andor</a> DeviceAdapter instead for other Andor CCD and EMCCD cameras)</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Author</p></td>
<td><p>David Gault (Andor)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Maintainers</p></td>
<td><p>Alan Mullan (Andor)<br />
Niall Flanagan (Andor)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Documentation:</p></td>
<td><p>Norman Glasgow (Andor, retired)<br />
Pariksheet Nanda (Andor)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>License:</p></td>
<td><p>BSD</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Platforms:</p></td>
<td><p>Windows, Linux, (No Mac driver available)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Devices:</p></td>
<td><p>Neo, Zyla, Sona</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Installation

### Andor Driver Pack 3 (sCMOS)

{% include MessageBox text="Required Driver Limited availability notice|You will need the Andor Driver Pack 3 (sCMOS).  This driver pack is currently not publicly available.  Please contact Andor and ask them to provide you with the latest version of this Driver Pack.  Public access will be restored soon." %}

{% include MessageBox text="Support Advisory|Andor Linux SDK3 reportedly supports up to kernel 3.18.2" %}
{% include MessageBox text="Support Advisory|Snapping an imaging may use the oldest image, and not the latest image, possibly due to pulling the wrong image from a double buffer" %}
{% include MessageBox text="Support Advisory|Images may start to scroll to the center of the field after each snap, shifting one line at a time. Restarting the camera and uManager fixes the issue" %}
{% include MessageBox text="Support Advisory|Linux 32-bit users should install Andor SDK 3.4.30007.0 until Bitflow fixes a 32-bit issue" %}

&lt;INCLUDE MessageBox text="Support Advisory\|Zyla cameras running
DriverPack3 / SDK3 3.7.30004.0 can cause a "blue screen of death" upon
PC shutdown when certain other devices are installed (e.g. Arduino).
This is not a serious problem, just annoying. The solution is to fully
uninstall the SDK3 and Bitflow driver (and even run a registry cleaning
software for good measure). Then install Andor SDK 3.8.30007.0 to the
Micro-Manager install directory. Restart the PC and power cycle the
camera before starting Micro-Manager.😎"&gt;

Install the Andor Driver Pack 3 (sCMOS) to the working Micro-Manager
Directory e.g.

```
   C:\Program Files\Micro-Manager-1.4\
```

and ensure you restart the computer.

On a 32-bit Windows OS, the 32-bit DLLs will be installed to a subfolder
of the MicroManager directory (e.g. C:\\Program
Files\\Micro-Manager-1.4\\Win32\\). These DLLs must then be copied to
the Micro-Manager Directory (e.g. C:\\Program
Files\\Micro-Manager-1.4\\), replacing the 64-bit DLLs.

### Disable computer power savings

Disable C-states power saving in the
[BIOS](Personal_computer_setup#BIOS "wikilink"). For Windows Vista and
later, also disable PCI Express &gt; Link State Power Management in
[Power Options](Personal_computer_setup#Power_Options "wikilink").

## Configuration

### Increase Sequence buffer size

It is possible to achieve full frame rate with enough RAM. Again using a
64-bit OS, set this value to **5120** MB

```
     Tools > Options... > Sequence buffer size [MB]
```

Depending on the amount of RAM on the PC or processing performance, this
may need to be adjusted accordingly.

Some operations take longer with larger sequence buffers. Many users
will be fine with the Micro-Manager default size, especially with a SSD
hard drive. 5120 MB is enough for 1250 full-frame images without writing
to disk. As of MM 1.4.19 the default buffer size is 250 MB for 64-bit OS
and 25 MB for 32-bit OS.

### Linux Installation

The following assumes you installed the Andor SDK in /usr/local/lib/

Put the following line into /etc/udev/rules.d/andor.rules

```
SUBSYSTEM=="video4linux", KERNEL=="video[0-3]*", ATTR{name}=="bitflow", GROUP="users"
```

Add the following lines to /etc/rc.d/rc.local

```
#!/bin/bash
# Bitflow and Andor
/sbin/modprobe v4l2_common
# /sbin/modprobe v4l1_compat -- only include this line if your kernel version is 
#   .. below 2.6.38 - use 'uname -a' to find out your kernel version
/sbin/modprobe videodev
/sbin/insmod /usr/local/andor/bitflow/drv/bitflow.ko fwDelay1=200 customFlags=1
```

Reboot the machine.

## Usage notes

-   Trigger mode is dynamically set by µManager when using
    Multi-Dimensional &gt; Time points.
    -   "exposure" &lt; "interval" ignores the "interval" time and
        instead uses "frame rate" property from the "Device/Property
        Browser"
    -   "exposure" &gt; "interval" sets Software Triggers acquisition.

<!-- -->

-   Save data to a large storage drive such as 1 TB, 950 MB/sec PCI-e
    SSD (OCZ-Z drive R2 P-88) or 4x Kingston 256GB SSD (RAID 0) on LSI
    MegaRAID setup

## Troubleshooting

### Zyla support in Micro-Manager

Please read the section on [High Speed Acquisition in
Micro-Manager](High_Speed_Acquisition_in_Micro-Manager "wikilink"). The
minimum version of Micro-Manager required is 1.4.11 (Nov 8th, 2012), but
1.4.16 or later is strongly recommended. Consider trying the latest
nightly build from
[here.](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/nightlyBuilds/1.4/Windows/)

### DeviceCreate function failed

This error appears in the hardware wizard if the Andor camera SDK has
been installed, but the computer has not been restarted.

### Error: Circular buffer overflowed.

If one encounters this error, increase sequence buffer size. In the
µManager toolbar one can set the Sequence buffer size in the main menu:

```
     Tools > Options... > Sequence buffer size [MB]
```

**Reason:** Due to the rate that the camera acquires data it's not
uncommon for µManager to run out of "Circular Buffer" memory during
sequence acquisitions (50+ images). The circular buffer is where images
wait when they've been taken off the camera but have not yet been
processed by µManager. The error message is:

```
     Micro-Manager Error:
     Error: Circular buffer overflowed.
```

Restart uManager for this change to take effect.

### Error: Internal inconsistency: unknown system exception occurred

If you see this message when snapping an image, try a lower
`AcquisitionWindow` size (the default is the full `Full Image`) to
confirm that the camera is capable of sending an image. The BitFlow
frame grabber PCIe card fits in 4x splots, but some motherboards don't
have the bandwidth to run it and the card may need to be instead
installed on an 8x or 16x slot.

## Resources

See Andor's [Setup
Video](https://andor.oxinst.com/learning/view/article/setting-up-and-using-andors-scmos-camera-range-in-the-micro-manager)
which details the steps above, shows how to add a device in the property
browser, etc.

See Andor's [Software
Guide](http://www.andor.com/pdfs/manuals/media/Andor_MicroManager_Guide_For_Neo_and_Zyla.pdf%7CMicro-Manager)
which details the steps above, shows how to add a device in the property
browser, etc.

### Development support

Please liaison with Micro-Manager developers to contact the Andor
software team

{% include Listserv_Search text="Andor" %}

### Andor support

-   [Web
    support](http://www.andor.com/contact_us/support_request/documentation/default.aspx?product=Neo%20sCMOS)
-   [Phone support](http://www.andor.com/contact_us/)
-   [Email support](mailto:3rdpartysupport@andor.com)

