_pages/Arduino.md, before:

---
autogenerated: true
title: Arduino
redirect_from: /wiki/Arduino
layout: page
---

<table>
<tr>
<td><p>Summary:</p></td>
<td><p>Adapter for the <a href="http://www.arduino.cc/">Arduino electronics prototyping platform</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Author:</p></td>
<td><p>Nico Stuurman</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>License:</p></td>
<td><p>LGPL</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Platforms:</p></td>
<td><p>Linux, Mac, and Windows</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Since version:</p></td>
<td><p>1.3.18</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Automated Serial Port Setup:</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Peripheral device discovery:</p></td>
<td><p>No</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Wiki page:</p></td>
<td><p>Nico Stuurman<br />
Pariksheet Nanda<br />
Roy Wollman</p></td>
</tr>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The [Arduino](http://www.arduino.cc/) is a low cost programmable digital
IO board. It has some digital inputs and digital outputs and can
communicate with the computer through a serial interface (that is hidden
in a USB connection). A very nice and simple programming language makes
the Arduino very simple to program. The Micro-Manager interface to the
Arduino consists of an Arduino program (the 'firmware') that you need to
upload to the Arduino first. The current version of the Micro-Manager
has facilities to use the Arduino as a shutter, and as a shutter that
only opens when a TTL is set high (for instance, when the camera is
exposing). Also, timed sequences of TTL output can be setup. There are
also facilities for programmable analogue out, however, those need
connection of a DA chip and requires constructions of a
'daughterboard'/'shield'.

![Figure: Functional pinout set by firmware version
2](/media/Micro-manager_bb.png "fig:Figure: Functional pinout set by firmware version 2")
([Image source .svg file](/media/files/Micro-manager_bb.svg.tar.gz))

## Installation

### Arduino Software (IDE)

The Arduino IDE is required to upload the firmware to the Arduino. Once
this step is done, it should no longer be required. Download and install
the [Arduino Software](http://arduino.cc/en/Main/Software) for your
platform. Establish a connection with your Arduino using the
instructions that come with the Arduino software (this includes
installing a driver for the USB to serial adapter built into the
Arduino.

### Firmware

For the Arduino Uno and similar boards, download the [firmware source
code](https://github.com/micro-manager/mmCoreAndDevices/blob/main/DeviceAdapters/Arduino/AOTFcontroller/AOTFcontroller.ino).
Bonno Meddens wrote compatible firmware for the ESP32, ItsyBitsy M4, and
Teensy 3.x boards that can be found
[here](https://github.com/bonnom/Micro-manager-Arduino). Copy the
firmware into a blank Arduino Sketch window. Send to the Arduino, and
your Arduino is programmed to work with Micro-Manager.

## Hardware Configuration Wizard

### Hub

Add the Arduino-Hub. You may want to set the "Verbose" property of the
port to 0 to avoid extensive logging of the communcation with the
device, especially if you are using the input functionality (which
queries the Arduino every second).

| Pre-Initialization Properties | Description                                                                                              |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Logic                         | **Inverted** causes digital inputs and outputs to be considered HIGH when 0 Volts and LOW when +5 Volts. |

| Serial Setting      | Value |
|---------------------|-------|
| AnswerTimeout       | 500   |
| BaudRate            | 57600 |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0     |
| Handshaking         | Off   |
| Parity              | None  |
| StopBits            | 1     |
| Verbose             | 0     |

{% include notice icon="info" content="If you get the following error message when trying to *Add* the Arduino device in the Wizard: <code>There are no unused ports available!</code>, first check that the Arduino is connected to the computer. Also, under GNU/Linux systems,make sure that your user is in the <code>dialout</code> system group ([http://micro-manager.3463995.n2.nabble.com/Contol-Leica-DMI6000B-using-MM-on-Linux-td7582998.html see details]). 
" %}

### Peripheral Devices Setup

| Name             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Arduino-Switch   | Digital output pattern set across pins 8 to 13. See usage in [Digital IO](#digital-io).                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Arduino-Shutter  | Toggles the digital outputs pattern across pins 8 to 13. Set all pins off when the shutter is closed, and restores the value set in `Switch-State` when the shutter is opened.                                                                                                           |
| Arduino-Input    | Reports, both, the digital and analog (0-1023) state of the analog input pins 0 to 5.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Arduino-DAC{1,2} | (Not usually used) Reserved for TLV5618 AOTF Peripheral. TLV5618 is a chip acting as a DAC (digital-to-analog converter) that can be added as a shield to the Arduino. This way, the Arduino can be used to control analog devices such as AOTF or stages. See [DAC](#dac). |

| Initialization Properties | Description                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Pin                       | Reads all 6 input pins when set to **All**, otherwise reads the individual 0-5 Pin number.                        |
| Pull-Up-Resistor          | Choose whether the Arduino should use its internal 20 kOhm internal pull-up resistor. If not sure, choose **On**. |

### Test Communication

Arduino boards Duemilanove and newer feature an LED attached to pin 13.
One can verify the Arduino is communicating by changing the state of pin
13 and verifying the LED changes. Setting pin 13 HIGH requires setting
the `Arduino-Switch-State` to 32 (i.e. 2^5) in the
`Device/Property Browser`. Toggle the `Arduino-Shutter` in the main MM
window (the output pins will only go high when the Shutter Device is
open, so you will need both the Shutter and State devices).

## Usage Notes

### Digital IO

All possible combinations of digital outputs that can be set across pins
8 to 13 can be set by a single number from from 0 to 63, with 0 turning
off all pins and 63 turning all pins on.

To choose the set of pins to be on for your `Arduino-Switch-State`
pattern, simply add all the decimal values for the pin from the table
below; so for pins 8 and 10 to be on, needs a decimal value of 1 + 4 =
**5** to be set in `Arduino-Switch-State`.

| Pin | Bit | Decimal Value when On |
|-----|-----|-----------------------|
| 8   | 0   | 1                     |
| 9   | 1   | 2                     |
| 10  | 2   | 4                     |
| 11  | 3   | 8                     |
| 12  | 4   | 16                    |
| 13  | 5   | 32                    |

The reason one has to do this is MM encodes the pins as bits in binary.
Pin 13 corresponds to the most significant bit 5, whose decimal value is
2^5 = 32. Similarly pin 10 will be bit 2 which has a decimal value of
2^2 = 4.

### Blanking

The "blanking" feature of the device adapter allows to ensure that the
sample is illuminated only when the camera is exposing. By connecting a
TTL output of the camera (active when the camera is exposing) to the
arduino input and enabling blanking, the digital output of the arduino
will be kept at zero as long as the TTL is inactive.

### Device Properties

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Properties</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Switch-Blanking Mode</p></td>
<td><p>Allows <strong>On</strong> or <strong>Off</strong>: enables "blanking" when the TTL input is inactive.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Switch-Blank On</p></td>
<td><p>Allows <strong>Low</strong> or <strong>High</strong>: defines the active state of the TTL input.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Switch-HubID</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Switch-Label</p></td>
<td><p>Set the digital output pattern across pins 8 to 13. Allows values 0-63. See usage in <a href="#digital-io">Digital IO</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Switch-Sequence</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Off</strong> operates the Arduino in normal "switching" mode.<br />
<strong>On</strong> enables triggered "sequencing" mode.
The digital input signal to pin 2 switches between the uploaded patterns.
Typically, one would connect the camera exposure signal to pin 2.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Switch-State</p></td>
<td><p>Set the digital output pattern across pins 8 to 13. Allows values 0-63. See usage in <a href="#digital-io">Digital IO</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Input-AnalogInput{0:5}</p></td>
<td><p>10-bit value of ADC input.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Input-DigitalInput</p></td>
<td><p>Value depends on how the <code>Pin</code> initialization property was set. Shows binary state of the input pin, if a single in was selected. Shows the 5-bit value of all input pins if "All" was selected.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Input-HubID</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>DAC{1,2}-HubID</p></td>
<td><p>(Not usually used) Reserved for TLV5618 AOTF Peripheral.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>DAC(1,2}-Volts</p></td>
<td><p>(Not usually used) Reserved for TLV5618 AOTF Peripheral.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### DAC

A *DAC* (digital-to-analog) converter is required for the Arduino to
output analog signals. Indeed, the Arduino can only *simulate* analog
outputs using a [PWM](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/PWM). To output
*true* analog output, a chip that perform a digital-to-analog conversion
is required.

#### PWM

When a pin is configured in PWM mode (using the `analogWrite` Arduino
command), the pin constantly switches between the binary *HIGH* and
*LOW* values such that the temporal average of the signal is the
required analog output: although the average of the voltage on a given
pin is different from the *HIGH* and *LOW* values, the pin actually
outputs a high frequency square wave, which can be detrimental to some
devices that require a true analog signal. A way to smooth the PWM
output to its average value is to use a [RC
circuit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RC_circuit).

Furthermore, the default PWM frequency of the Arduino is relatively low:
about 1 kHz. It is possible to [go up to
30-60kHz](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/SecretsOfArduinoPWM).

#### DAC - Description

One DAC chip is the [Texas Instrument
TLV5618](http://www.ti.com/product/TLV5618A/technicaldocuments). It is a
12 bit DAC. It is easy to handle and the Arduino firmware can talk
natively to it through a builtin [SPI
protocol](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/SPI).

It can be wired as follows on pins 3, 4 and 5 of the Arduino and will
require a few additional components:

-   A decoupling capacitor (we used a 100 nF ceramic capacitor)
-   Resistors/potentiometers to build a voltage divisor and power the
    *REF* pin of the DAC. The reference has to be set at 2.04 V. This
    can be achieved using a 20 kOhm resistor on one side and a 29 kOhm
    resistor on the other side (29 kohm can be obtained with 20+6.8+2.2
    kOhm serial resistors).

Those should be wired as follow:

![](/media/TLV5618_wiring.png)

Notes:

-   *OUT\_A* and *OUT\_B* are the analog outputs.
-   The pair of resistors *R1* and *R2*can be tweaked as long as the
    voltage on the *REF* pin of the TLV5618 remains 2.04 V
-   The *+5V* and *GND* should be wired to the 5V and GND pins of the
    Arduino

#### Alternative wiring

The current (as of Oct. 2016) implementation of the SPI interface in the
Arduino firmware limits the speed of the DAC to approximately 1 kHz.
However, it is possible to do better by using the [builtin SPI
interface](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/SPI) of the Arduino. This
can shrink the response down to 25 µs (40 kHz).

However, the SPI interface is only available on pins 10, 11, 13, which
requires a little bit of reorganization of the Arduino code to work
out-of-the box, and the `analogueOutput` function has to be re-written
to use the SPI interface ([see an
example](http://www.stephenhobley.com/build/lh_arduino.html))

Additional information is available on those websites:

-   [Digital-to-analog
    converter](https://karplus4arduino.wordpress.com/2011/06/15/digital-to-analog-converter/)
-   [Laser harp
    construction](http://www.stephenhobley.com/build/lh_arduino.html)

#### DAC - performance

**Linearity**: If the voltage on the reference pin *REF* of the TLV5618
is properly set, the response to a ramp command is fairly linear (see
image below). Note that the y scale is arbitrary and the x scale is ms.

![](/media/TLV5618-linearity.png)

**Response time**:

![](/media/TLV5618_response.png)

## Project Tutorials

-   [Step-by-step to controlling multiple light sources with an Arduino
    for sequenceable
    MDA](https://github.com/vanNimwegenLab/MiM_NikonTi/blob/master/Docs/NikonTi_hardware_triggering.md)
    by Guillaume Witz & Thomas Julou.

<!-- -->

-   [TTL control of multiple
    LEDs](http://homepages.uconn.edu/~mb2225vc/MCB_2225/LED_Construction.html)
    by David Knecht.

<!-- -->

-   [Detect tube lens
    position](Encoding_the_Nikon_TI_Eclipse_tube_lens) of
    Nikon Ti Eclipse

<!-- -->

-   [ Control laser shutter with
    Arduino](Control_laser_shutters_with_Arduino) by Rocco
    D'Antuono.

<!-- -->

-   [3D printed enclosure with 8 BNC connectors for an
    Arduino](http://nic.ucsf.edu/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=3d_printing:3dparts)
    by Kurt Thorn

<!-- -->

-   [Open LED
    Illuminator](http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0143547&representation=PDF)
    by Jens B. Bosse et al.


[Discussion page](/talk/Arduino) for Arduino imported from old wiki

Commit message:

Update Arduino.md with Arduino-Magnifier device

_pages/Arduino.md, after:

---
autogenerated: true
title: Arduino
redirect_from: /wiki/Arduino
layout: page
---

<table>
<tr>
<td><p>Summary:</p></td>
<td><p>Adapter for the <a href="http://www.arduino.cc/">Arduino electronics prototyping platform</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Author:</p></td>
<td><p>Nico Stuurman</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>License:</p></td>
<td><p>LGPL</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Platforms:</p></td>
<td><p>Linux, Mac, and Windows</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Since version:</p></td>
<td><p>1.3.18</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Automated Serial Port Setup:</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Peripheral device discovery:</p></td>
<td><p>No</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Wiki page:</p></td>
<td><p>Nico Stuurman<br />
Pariksheet Nanda<br />
Roy Wollman</p></td>
</tr>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The [Arduino](http://www.arduino.cc/) is a low cost programmable digital
IO board. It has some digital inputs and digital outputs and can
communicate with the computer through a serial interface (that is hidden
in a USB connection). A very nice and simple programming language makes
the Arduino very simple to program. The Micro-Manager interface to the
Arduino consists of an Arduino program (the 'firmware') that you need to
upload to the Arduino first. The current version of the Micro-Manager
has facilities to use the Arduino as a shutter, and as a shutter that
only opens when a TTL is set high (for instance, when the camera is
exposing). Also, timed sequences of TTL output can be setup. There are
also facilities for programmable analogue out, however, those need
connection of a DA chip and requires constructions of a
'daughterboard'/'shield'.

![Figure: Functional pinout set by firmware version
2](/media/Micro-manager_bb.png "fig:Figure: Functional pinout set by firmware version 2")
([Image source .svg file](/media/files/Micro-manager_bb.svg.tar.gz))

## Installation

### Arduino Software (IDE)

The Arduino IDE is required to upload the firmware to the Arduino. Once
this step is done, it should no longer be required. Download and install
the [Arduino Software](http://arduino.cc/en/Main/Software) for your
platform. Establish a connection with your Arduino using the
instructions that come with the Arduino software (this includes
installing a driver for the USB to serial adapter built into the
Arduino.

### Firmware

For the Arduino Uno and similar boards, download the [firmware source
code](https://github.com/micro-manager/mmCoreAndDevices/blob/main/DeviceAdapters/Arduino/AOTFcontroller/AOTFcontroller.ino).
Bonno Meddens wrote compatible firmware for the ESP32, ItsyBitsy M4, and
Teensy 3.x boards that can be found
[here](https://github.com/bonnom/Micro-manager-Arduino). Copy the
firmware into a blank Arduino Sketch window. Send to the Arduino, and
your Arduino is programmed to work with Micro-Manager.

## Hardware Configuration Wizard

### Hub

Add the Arduino-Hub. You may want to set the "Verbose" property of the
port to 0 to avoid extensive logging of the communcation with the
device, especially if you are using the input functionality (which
queries the Arduino every second).

| Pre-Initialization Properties | Description                                                                                              |
|-------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Logic                         | **Inverted** causes digital inputs and outputs to be considered HIGH when 0 Volts and LOW when +5 Volts. |

| Serial Setting      | Value |
|---------------------|-------|
| AnswerTimeout       | 500   |
| BaudRate            | 57600 |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0     |
| Handshaking         | Off   |
| Parity              | None  |
| StopBits            | 1     |
| Verbose             | 0     |

{% include notice icon="info" content="If you get the following error message when trying to *Add* the Arduino device in the Wizard: <code>There are no unused ports available!</code>, first check that the Arduino is connected to the computer. Also, under GNU/Linux systems,make sure that your user is in the <code>dialout</code> system group ([http://micro-manager.3463995.n2.nabble.com/Contol-Leica-DMI6000B-using-MM-on-Linux-td7582998.html see details]). 
" %}

### Peripheral Devices Setup

| Name             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Arduino-Switch   | Digital output pattern set across pins 8 to 13. See usage in [Digital IO](#digital-io).                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Arduino-Shutter  | Toggles the digital outputs pattern across pins 8 to 13. Set all pins off when the shutter is closed, and restores the value set in `Switch-State` when the shutter is opened.                                                                                                           |
| Arduino-Input    | Reports, both, the digital and analog (0-1023) state of the analog input pins 0 to 5.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Arduino-Magnifier    | Used to couple a change in the digital input to a change in magnification.  Required Arduino-Input.  Provide the magnification for each digital state in the Syste,-Startup group.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Arduino-DAC{1,2} | (Not usually used) Reserved for TLV5618 AOTF Peripheral. TLV5618 is a chip acting as a DAC (digital-to-analog converter) that can be added as a shield to the Arduino. This way, the Arduino can be used to control analog devices such as AOTF or stages. See [DAC](#dac). |

| Initialization Properties | Description                                                                                                       |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Pin                       | Reads all 6 input pins when set to **All**, otherwise reads the individual 0-5 Pin number.                        |
| Pull-Up-Resistor          | Choose whether the Arduino should use its internal 20 kOhm internal pull-up resistor. If not sure, choose **On**. |

### Test Communication

Arduino boards Duemilanove and newer feature an LED attached to pin 13.
One can verify the Arduino is communicating by changing the state of pin
13 and verifying the LED changes. Setting pin 13 HIGH requires setting
the `Arduino-Switch-State` to 32 (i.e. 2^5) in the
`Device/Property Browser`. Toggle the `Arduino-Shutter` in the main MM
window (the output pins will only go high when the Shutter Device is
open, so you will need both the Shutter and State devices).

## Usage Notes

### Digital IO

All possible combinations of digital outputs that can be set across pins
8 to 13 can be set by a single number from from 0 to 63, with 0 turning
off all pins and 63 turning all pins on.

To choose the set of pins to be on for your `Arduino-Switch-State`
pattern, simply add all the decimal values for the pin from the table
below; so for pins 8 and 10 to be on, needs a decimal value of 1 + 4 =
**5** to be set in `Arduino-Switch-State`.

| Pin | Bit | Decimal Value when On |
|-----|-----|-----------------------|
| 8   | 0   | 1                     |
| 9   | 1   | 2                     |
| 10  | 2   | 4                     |
| 11  | 3   | 8                     |
| 12  | 4   | 16                    |
| 13  | 5   | 32                    |

The reason one has to do this is MM encodes the pins as bits in binary.
Pin 13 corresponds to the most significant bit 5, whose decimal value is
2^5 = 32. Similarly pin 10 will be bit 2 which has a decimal value of
2^2 = 4.

### Blanking

The "blanking" feature of the device adapter allows to ensure that the
sample is illuminated only when the camera is exposing. By connecting a
TTL output of the camera (active when the camera is exposing) to the
arduino input and enabling blanking, the digital output of the arduino
will be kept at zero as long as the TTL is inactive.

### Device Properties

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Properties</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Switch-Blanking Mode</p></td>
<td><p>Allows <strong>On</strong> or <strong>Off</strong>: enables "blanking" when the TTL input is inactive.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Switch-Blank On</p></td>
<td><p>Allows <strong>Low</strong> or <strong>High</strong>: defines the active state of the TTL input.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Switch-HubID</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Switch-Label</p></td>
<td><p>Set the digital output pattern across pins 8 to 13. Allows values 0-63. See usage in <a href="#digital-io">Digital IO</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Switch-Sequence</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Off</strong> operates the Arduino in normal "switching" mode.<br />
<strong>On</strong> enables triggered "sequencing" mode.
The digital input signal to pin 2 switches between the uploaded patterns.
Typically, one would connect the camera exposure signal to pin 2.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Switch-State</p></td>
<td><p>Set the digital output pattern across pins 8 to 13. Allows values 0-63. See usage in <a href="#digital-io">Digital IO</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Input-AnalogInput{0:5}</p></td>
<td><p>10-bit value of ADC input.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Input-DigitalInput</p></td>
<td><p>Value depends on how the <code>Pin</code> initialization property was set. Shows binary state of the input pin, if a single in was selected. Shows the 5-bit value of all input pins if "All" was selected.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Input-HubID</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>DAC{1,2}-HubID</p></td>
<td><p>(Not usually used) Reserved for TLV5618 AOTF Peripheral.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>DAC(1,2}-Volts</p></td>
<td><p>(Not usually used) Reserved for TLV5618 AOTF Peripheral.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### DAC

A *DAC* (digital-to-analog) converter is required for the Arduino to
output analog signals. Indeed, the Arduino can only *simulate* analog
outputs using a [PWM](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/PWM). To output
*true* analog output, a chip that perform a digital-to-analog conversion
is required.

#### PWM

When a pin is configured in PWM mode (using the `analogWrite` Arduino
command), the pin constantly switches between the binary *HIGH* and
*LOW* values such that the temporal average of the signal is the
required analog output: although the average of the voltage on a given
pin is different from the *HIGH* and *LOW* values, the pin actually
outputs a high frequency square wave, which can be detrimental to some
devices that require a true analog signal. A way to smooth the PWM
output to its average value is to use a [RC
circuit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RC_circuit).

Furthermore, the default PWM frequency of the Arduino is relatively low:
about 1 kHz. It is possible to [go up to
30-60kHz](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/SecretsOfArduinoPWM).

#### DAC - Description

One DAC chip is the [Texas Instrument
TLV5618](http://www.ti.com/product/TLV5618A/technicaldocuments). It is a
12 bit DAC. It is easy to handle and the Arduino firmware can talk
natively to it through a builtin [SPI
protocol](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/SPI).

It can be wired as follows on pins 3, 4 and 5 of the Arduino and will
require a few additional components:

-   A decoupling capacitor (we used a 100 nF ceramic capacitor)
-   Resistors/potentiometers to build a voltage divisor and power the
    *REF* pin of the DAC. The reference has to be set at 2.04 V. This
    can be achieved using a 20 kOhm resistor on one side and a 29 kOhm
    resistor on the other side (29 kohm can be obtained with 20+6.8+2.2
    kOhm serial resistors).

Those should be wired as follow:

![](/media/TLV5618_wiring.png)

Notes:

-   *OUT\_A* and *OUT\_B* are the analog outputs.
-   The pair of resistors *R1* and *R2*can be tweaked as long as the
    voltage on the *REF* pin of the TLV5618 remains 2.04 V
-   The *+5V* and *GND* should be wired to the 5V and GND pins of the
    Arduino

#### Alternative wiring

The current (as of Oct. 2016) implementation of the SPI interface in the
Arduino firmware limits the speed of the DAC to approximately 1 kHz.
However, it is possible to do better by using the [builtin SPI
interface](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/SPI) of the Arduino. This
can shrink the response down to 25 µs (40 kHz).

However, the SPI interface is only available on pins 10, 11, 13, which
requires a little bit of reorganization of the Arduino code to work
out-of-the box, and the `analogueOutput` function has to be re-written
to use the SPI interface ([see an
example](http://www.stephenhobley.com/build/lh_arduino.html))

Additional information is available on those websites:

-   [Digital-to-analog
    converter](https://karplus4arduino.wordpress.com/2011/06/15/digital-to-analog-converter/)
-   [Laser harp
    construction](http://www.stephenhobley.com/build/lh_arduino.html)

#### DAC - performance

**Linearity**: If the voltage on the reference pin *REF* of the TLV5618
is properly set, the response to a ramp command is fairly linear (see
image below). Note that the y scale is arbitrary and the x scale is ms.

![](/media/TLV5618-linearity.png)

**Response time**:

![](/media/TLV5618_response.png)

## Project Tutorials

-   [Step-by-step to controlling multiple light sources with an Arduino
    for sequenceable
    MDA](https://github.com/vanNimwegenLab/MiM_NikonTi/blob/master/Docs/NikonTi_hardware_triggering.md)
    by Guillaume Witz & Thomas Julou.

<!-- -->

-   [TTL control of multiple
    LEDs](http://homepages.uconn.edu/~mb2225vc/MCB_2225/LED_Construction.html)
    by David Knecht.

<!-- -->

-   [Detect tube lens
    position](Encoding_the_Nikon_TI_Eclipse_tube_lens) of
    Nikon Ti Eclipse

<!-- -->

-   [ Control laser shutter with
    Arduino](Control_laser_shutters_with_Arduino) by Rocco
    D'Antuono.

<!-- -->

-   [3D printed enclosure with 8 BNC connectors for an
    Arduino](http://nic.ucsf.edu/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=3d_printing:3dparts)
    by Kurt Thorn

<!-- -->

-   [Open LED
    Illuminator](http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0143547&representation=PDF)
    by Jens B. Bosse et al.


[Discussion page](/talk/Arduino) for Arduino imported from old wiki
