---
autogenerated: true
title: ASIFW1000
layout: page
---

## ASI FW1000 adapter

<table>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Controls ASI Filter wheels and shutters

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

All platforms (uses serial port)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Controller, FilterWheel, Shutter

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

None

</td>

</tr>

</table>

**Serial port settings**

|                     |          |
| ------------------- | -------- |
| Baudrate            | 9600     |
| AnswerTimeout       | 500.0000 |
| DataBits            | 8        |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0.0000   |
| Handshaking         | Off      |
| StopBits            | 1        |

The ASIFW1000 controller
[1](http://www.asiimaging.com/products/illumination-control/fw-1000-high-speed-filter-wheel/)
can be equipped with one or more filter wheel control panels (each
controlling two filter wheels) and one or more shutter control panels
(each driving two shutters). The controller connects to a serial port on
your computer.

To drive any filter wheel or shutter, you will have to define the
'ASIFW1000 Controller' device. You will need to specify the serial port
to which the ASIFW1000 controller is connected. Micro-Manager will
report the Firmware version of the ASIFW1000 Controller.

Up to two filter wheels can be declared. The filter wheel number is a
pre-initialization property. Make sure that you do not declare the same
filter wheel number twice, or strange things will happen. If you need
control of more than two wheels, contact us, as the adapter can easily
be modified to work with multiple wheels. The controller will report the
number of filters in the wheel to the software (but you will have to
make sure that the controller has been programmed with the correct
number), and the current position of the wheel.

Up to two shutters can be declared, which also are specified using a
pre-initialization property. Shutters can be "normally open" and
"normally closed' (make sure you set this pre-initialization property
correctly). Although the controller can report whether a shutter is open
or closed (or busy), there were so many obstacles in implementing this
correctly, that I decided just to use a user-defined time-out. Make sure
the time-out is correct (look up the specs for your shutter to estimate
how long it will take to open/close the shutter).

\--[Nico](User:Nico "wikilink") 21:48, 15 August 2007 (PDT)

{% include Devices_Sidebar text="" %}
