---
autogenerated: true
title: Build on MacOS X
redirect_from: /wiki/Build_on_MacOS_X
layout: page
---

{% include notice icon="info" content="This page is up to date for SVN r13224." %}

## Getting the required tools

It is recommended that you use OS X 10.7 or later to build
Micro-Manager, although earlier versions may work without too much
trouble.

Get Xcode from Apple's App Store. Although we will only be using the
command-line compilers and tools, make sure to start Xcode once and
allow it to install the Command Line Tools.

A number of command-line tools are required to build Micro-Manager. The
easiest way to obtain them is to use [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/):

```
 brew install autoconf automake libtool pkg-config swig subversion ant
```

## Getting dependencies

Boost C++ Libraries are required to build Micro-Manager. It is easiest
to install it using Homebrew:

```
 brew install boost
```

To build the Micro-Manager application, you also need the Java
Development Kit. [JDK
7](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/) from Oracle
is easiest to set up but is 64-bit only. (Micro-Manager Java source code
is written in Java 6. You can also use Apple JDK 6 ("Java for OS X"),
but you will need to pass some complicated flags to `./configure`.) You
will also need a copy of
[ImageJ](http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/download.html) 1.48 (it is best to use
a clean copy, at least the first time you are building Micro-Manager).
Extract this to any desired location.

If you want to build the Python wrapper (MMCorePy), you will need Python
2.7 or 3.x and NumPy. These can be installed from binary distributions
or using Homebrew (Python 2 is also preinstalled in OS X).

## Getting Micro-Manager source code

Check out [Micro-Manager Source
Code](Micro-Manager_Source_Code) using Subversion. Place the
main source tree (from micromanager2) and the 3rdpartypublic directory
in the same parent directory.

## Configuring and building

See `doc/how-to-build.md` for generic build instructions.

The most common way to build and install Micro-Manager is to run the
following, in the root of the micromanager source tree:

```
 ./autogen.sh
 ./configure --enable-imagej-plugin=/path/to/ImageJ
 make fetchdeps   # Required since SVN r14001-r14016
 make
 make install
```

The last step will print instructions for how to run the installed
Micro-Manager.

To get help with `./configure` options, type

```
 ./configure --help
```

If you use Java 6 ("Java for OS X" from Apple), use the following for
the ./configure line:

<div style="width:625px">

    ./configure --enable-imagej-plugin=/path/to/ImageJ \
    JAVA_HOME=/System/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/1.6.0.jdk/Contents/Home \
    JNI_CPPFLAGS=-I/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.10.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/JavaVM.framework/Versions/A/Headers \
    JAVACFLAGS="-Xlint:all,-serial -source 1.6 -target 1.6"

</div>

## Device adapter dependencies

Some device adapters require extra dependencies. Most of these can be
installed using Homebrew.

```
# To build USBManager
brew install libusb-compat

# To build HIDManager
brew install hidapi

brew install libdc1394

# To build GPhoto2
brew install libgphoto2 freeimage

# To build OpenCVgrabber
brew install opencv
```

See also: output of

```
./DeviceAdapters/configure --help
```

or

```
./configure --help=recursive
```

Any vendor frameworks (mostly camera SDKs) will be automatically
detected if installed in the default location.
