---
autogenerated: true
title: ChuoSeiki QT
redirect_from: /wiki/ChuoSeiki_QT
layout: page
---

## [ChuoSeiki](ChuoSeiki "wikilink") QT

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Micro-Manager device adapters for QT-series controllers

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Naoto Hirose](https://micro-manager.org/wiki/User:Nowt75) ([Chuo
Precision Industrial Co.,LTD.](http://www.chuo.co.jp/english/))

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">
</td>
<td markdown="1">

Duong Quang Anh ([Chuo Precision Industrial
Co.,LTD.](http://www.chuo.co.jp/english/))

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

All (uses serial interface)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

3-Axis: QT-AMM3, QT-ADM3, QT-ADM3-35

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">
</td>
<td markdown="1">

2-Axis: QT-AMH2A, QT-AMH2A-35, QT-ADM2, QT-ADM2-35

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">
</td>
<td markdown="1">

1-axis: QT-ADL1, QT-ADL1-35

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Available since version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.4.23 20181220 ([Nightly Builds](Nightly_Builds "wikilink"))

</td>
</tr>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The <b>ChuoSeiki QT-series controllers</b> connect to PC via the RS232
interface. It does not require any special driver to run. However, if
you connect the controller via a device such as a USB-RS232 converter,
be sure to install its driver.

The <b>ChuoSeiki\_QT</b> adapters can control one or more
QT-controllers: you can register multi adapters in <em>Hardware
Configuration Wizard</em> with different serial ports, and each device
adapter connects to one controller using one serial port. Exception: the
3-axis controllers can be driven by two device adapters (one for AB
axis, the other for C axis), which are registered at one same serial
port.

To download the QT-series controller's user manual, please follow this
link [1](http://www.chuo.co.jp/english/contents/hp0063/list.php?CNo=63),
click on the controller and then download the manual under the
<i>Product information</i> bar.

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Device Adapter Initialization**

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

The "ChuoSeiki QT 2-Axis\|\|XY stages" requests to register the Serial
port and Serial port settings.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

The "ChuoSeiki QT 1-Axis\|\|Z stage" requests to register the Serial
port, Serial port settings, and Axis name (or stage channel).

</td>
</tr>
</table>

{% include notice icon="info" content="Register the correct serial port that connects to the corresponding QT controller. If using 3-axis controller, the above two device adapters should be registered to one single serial port (see <i>Note on Axis name</i>)." %}

''' Serial port settings '''

|                     |      |      |
|---------------------|------|------|
| Baudrate            | 9600 | bps  |
| DataBits            | 8    | bits |
| StopBits            | 1    | bit  |
| ParityBits          | None | bit  |
| AnswerTimeout       | 500  | ms   |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0.00 | ms   |
| Handshaking         | Off  |      |

'''Default Stage settings '''

|                   |      |     |
|-------------------|------|-----|
| HighSpeed         | 2000 | pps |
| LowSpeed          | 500  | pps |
| StepSize          | 1    | um  |
| Acceleration time | 100  | ms  |

<em>Please customize your stage settings using Group and Preset in
Micro-Manager. Or you can load the settings from a saved .cfg file.</em>

{% include notice icon="info" content="'''Axis Name Registration'''" %}

The "ChuoSeiki QT 2-Axis" supports the 2-axis controllers or control AB
channels of the 3-axis controllers. In this device adapter, the two
stages names are fixed as "A" and "B", corresponding to the controller's
A&B channels. It uses the functions that control two axes at the same
time.

The "ChuoSeiki QT 1-Axis" supports the 1-axis controller or control one
channel of the 2-axis/3-axis controllers. The axis name (default is "A")
can be re-defined in the device adapter as "A" or "B" or "C",
corresponding to the controller's A or B or C channels.

To control a 3-axis controller, you need to register one "ChuoSeiki QT
2-Axis" for its A&B channels and one "ChuoSeiki QT 1-Axis" for its C
channel. The two device adapters must be registered with the same Serial
port, which is connected to the 3-axis controller. And remember to
change the axis name to "C" when initializing the "ChuoSeiki QT 1-Axis".

------------------------------------------------------------------------
