---
autogenerated: true
title: Configuration options
layout: page
---

{% include Note text="The following is obsolete. See <code>doc/how-to-build.md</code> in the source tree (available since r13210)." %}

As of Micro-Manager version 1.3 the following config options are
available:

\--with-imagej=/PathToImageJ This needs to be set or ImageJ needs to be
found automatically. Building without imagej does not work at present.

\--with-javaincl=path Only needs to be set when the java include
directory is not found automatically (the configure script does an
extensive search.

\--without-core Allows you to build only the deviceadapters. Not
building the Core means that you do not need to build ACE, i.e. this is
much simpler and should allow you to start working on DeviceAdapters
without much fuss. Default is '--with-core'. To add your own
Deviceadapter, create a directory with your code in 'DeviceAdapters',
copy a 'Makefile.am' from an existing DeviceAdapter and edit to reflect
the names used in your project, edit DeviceAdapters/configure.in (add
the name of your DeviceAdapter to the line starting with 'AC\_OUTPUT')
and DeviceAdapters/Makefile.am (add the name of your adapter to the line
starting with 'SUBDIRS'). Typing 'make' should start building your
project (if it does not, try 'autoreconf', or 'autoconf', automake',
'./configure')

It can also be useful to specify compiler flags. I often use the
following: CXXFLAGS="-g -O2 -mmacosx-version-min=10.4" Where -g signals
to include debug symbols, -O2 specifies an optimization level, and
-mmacosx-version-min is a Mac-specific flag that in this case generates
code compatible with Mac OS X 10.4 (make sure that you have links to
essential libraries in the path: /Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.4u.sdk/)

Example: ./configure --with-imagej=/Applications/Micro-Manager1.3
CXXFLAGS="-g -O2 -mmacosx-version-min=10.4"

{% include Programming_Sidebar text="" %}
