---
autogenerated: true
title: DAShutter
redirect_from: /wiki/DAShutter
layout: page
---

## DA Shutter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Treats a DA output device as a shutter. This can be handy for diode
lasers (and possibly also other devices)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

All platforms

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Stage

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

None

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Micro-Manager version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

&gt;=1.2.39. In 1.3 an higher, this code can be found in the Utilities
adapter

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Some diode lasers can be controlled with an analogue voltage, i.e. the
lightoutput is equivalent to the applied voltage. Digital Analogue (DA)
devices supported by Micro-manager (currently
[DTOpenLayer](DTOpenLayer), the [Velleman
K8055](Velleman_K8055) and the [Velleman
K8061](Velleman_K8061)) can provide computer control of
lightoutput. However, to make the DA device appear as a shutter in
Micro-Manager you will need this adapter. .

You will need to physically connect the output of the DA device to your
device (diode laser, LED...). Then make a configuration file (using the
hardware configuration wizard) that contains both the DA device and the
DAShutter adapters. There is one parameter that needs to be set: the DA
device that is associated with this DAShutter device. For technical
reasons, this parameter can only be set after all adapters are loaded.
By default, the first DA device found will be loaded. The best way to
change this is to define this parameter ("DA Device") in your startup
configuration. To this end, make a system configuration group called
'System' and in the group make a preset called 'Startup'. In this group,
set the 'DA device' property to the desired DA device.

The interplay with the 'DA Shutter' and the actual DA device is a bit
funky. You will first need to set the desired intensity of the light
output by setting the output voltage. You can then shutter the light
with the DA Shutter device. If you change the voltage while the shutter
is closed, the light will come on again (which is counter-intuitive).

--[Nico](/users/Nico) 16:02, 30 September 2008 (PDT)

