---
autogenerated: true
title: Dc1394
layout: page
---

## IIDC1394

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Interfaces to firewire cameras that adhere to the IIDC1394
specifications

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman, with contributions from Gregory Jefferis

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Linux, Mac OS X (anywhere
[libdc1394](http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/libdc1394/) functions)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Firewire cameras that adhere to the [IIDC
specs](http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/libdc1394/iidc_specifications.php)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1" width=20% valign='top'>

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Simple config:
[MMConfig_Firewire.cfg](media/MMConfig_Firewire.cfg "wikilink"),
config for Sony XCD (includes integrations presets):
[MMConfig_Firewire_Sony.cfg](media/MMConfig_Firewire_Sony.cfg "wikilink")

</td>
</tr>
</table>

See also: [IIDC](IIDC "wikilink").

This adapter is an interface to the libdc1394 library
[1](http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/libdc1394/) (included), which
controls firewire cameras that adhere to the IIDC specifications
[2](http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/libdc1394/iidc_specifications.php).
Damien Douxchamps maintains a list
[3](http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/cameras/index.php) of
compatible cameras.

The adapter was developed using an Apple iSight camera and a Sony
XCD-700, so these will likely work decently whereas your mileage might
vary with other cameras. Gregory Jefferis put some work in to make this
work with Format 7 cameras (the most powerful video mode format
supported by the standard), but I am not exactly sure where that stands.

Many of the IIDC-compatible cameras do not allow you to set an exposure
time expressed in msec. Therefore, the 'shutter' function is being used,
the number of which relates in a camera specific way to exposure time. A
more elegant solution would be great!

Color images (like those from the Apple iSight) are converted to
gray-scale images within the adapter (useful until the day that
Micro-Manager starts supporting color cameras).

The adapter also implements a software integration feature, which can be
useful to improve signal/noise for noisy 8-bit cameras (when integrating
the adapter will return a 16-bit image resulting from adding the
specified number of consecutive 8-bit images).

The adapter was developed on Mac OS X but was reported to work on linux
as well (however, check out the [Building Firewire camera support on
Linux](Building_Firewire_camera_support_on_Linux "wikilink") build
instructions). libdc1394 is currently being ported to Windows
[4](http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/libdc1394/news.php), so one
day we might implement this adapter on Windows as well.

There is a lot of work that can be done on the adapter to make it
auto-detect capabilities of different cameras, switch on and off
auto-capabilities of the cameras, etc.. However, it seems useful in many
cases already.

--[Nico](/users/Nico "wikilink") 10:53, 25 August 2007 (PDT)

Windows build (32-bit only) worked for snapping but not for streaming,
using an Apple iSight camera. To install drivers, go to
<http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~iwan/1394/> and download 1394camera646.exe (or
other version). Then, after plugging in the camera, use the Windows
Device Manager to install the driver (select the camera, choose "Update
Driver...", and point it to the installed CMU drivers folder). --[Mark
Tsuchida](/users/Mark_Tsuchida "wikilink") 16:08, 20 May 2013 (PDT)

{% include Listserv_Search text="dc1394" %}

