---
autogenerated: true
title: Debugging MM on MacOSX and Unix
layout: page
---

## Using gdb

Debugging of the C++ code on Mac and Unix can proceed as follows:

cd to your ImageJ directory that contains a self-starting Micro-Manager
plugin:

```
   cd ~/ImageJ
```

Start gdb debugging java:

```
   $ gdb -arch i386 java
```

Now tell java on gdb to run ImageJ:

```
  (gdb) r -cp ij.jar ij.ImageJ
```

Control-C can interrupt execution.

Please refer to the [gdb
documentation](http://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb_toc.html)
for debugging commands.

## Using lldb

Apple replaced gdb with lldb (around Mac OS X 10.9?). lldb commands are
very similar to gdb, however, please have a look at this
[tutorial](http://lldb.llvm.org/tutorial.html). Note that lldb will stop
on every SIGSEGV signal generated by java (for an explanation, see
[1](http://fusionsecurity.blogspot.com/2011/10/why-am-i-seeing-sigsegv-when-i-strace.html).
Press 'c' to continue (there may be a more efficient way of dealing with
this).

## Using NetBeans with gdb for C++ debugging

1.  Install NetBeans for C++ or install the C/C++ plugin for in your
    existing NetBeans installation.
2.  Choose File &gt; New Project... . Select Categories=C/C++,
    Projects=C/C++ Project with Existing Sources.
3.  Specifiy the folder that contains existing sources (e.g.,
    **/projects/micromanager/**) and press "Finish."
4.  Right-click the new project and select "Properties".
5.  Under Build...Make, set Build Command to "make all; make install"
    and "Clean Command" to "make clean". Set Build Result to
    "<your_ImageJ_directory>/ImageJ.app/Contents/MacOS/JavaApplicationStub"
    .
6.  Add the following option to the **netbeans\_default\_options="..."**
    line of **/Applications/NetBeans/NetBeans\\
    6.8.app/Contents/Resources/NetBeans/etc/netbeans.conf** :
        -J-Dgdb.init.enable=true
7.  Create a **.gdbinit** file in **\~** that informs gdb of the
    directories of all **.cpp** and **.h** source files you might wish
    to debug:
        directory /projects/micromanager/
        directory /projects/micromanager/MMCore
        directory /projects/micromanager/MMDevice
        directory /projects/micromanager/DeviceAdapters/DemoCamera
8.  Restart Netbeans.
9.  Launch ImageJ (the target of make install from your micromanager
    source).
10. Select Debug...Attach debugger.

{% include Programming_Sidebar text="" %}
