---
autogenerated: true
title: Documentation
redirect_from: /wiki/Documentation
layout: page
---

## Micro-Manager Documentation

In addition to the [main Micro-Manager
manual](http://micro-manager.org/documentation.php), we maintain here
documentation for those aspects of Micro-Manager that are still in flux
and/or rapidly changing.

-   *[Files and Metadata](Files_and_Metadata)*

<!-- -->

-   *[Device Adapters](Device_Support)*

<!-- -->

-   *[Plugins](Plugins)*

<!-- -->

-   *[High Speed Acquisition](High_Speed_Acquisition)*

<!-- -->

-   *[Display troubleshooting](Display_troubleshooting)*

<!-- -->

-   *Autofocus configuration*
    -   [Autofocus setup](Autofocus_setup) - Making
        Micro-Manager use image-based autofocus
    -   [Autofocus manual](Autofocus_manual) - Configure the
        image-based autofocus implemented in Java
    -   [SimpleAutofocus Device
        Adapter](Autofocus_Device_Adapter) - Configure the
        image-based autofocus 'device' implemented in C++

<!-- -->

-   *Scripting in Micro-Manager*
    -   [Script Panel GUI](Script_Panel_GUI) - Introduction
        to the Script Panel GUI
    -   [gui
        object](http://micro-manager.org/content/doc/mmstudio/org/micromanager/api/ScriptInterface.html) -
        Documentation of the GUI scripting object
    -   [mmc
        object](http://micro-manager.org/content/doc/mmcore_api/html/class_c_m_m_core.html) -
        Documentation of the mmc Micro-Manager core object
    -   [acq
        object](http://micro-manager.org/content/doc/mmstudio/org/micromanager/api/AcquisitionEngine.html) -
        Documentation on the Multi-Dimensional Acquisition object
    -   [example Beanshell
        scripts](example_Beanshell_scripts) - A few example
        scripts with minimal annotation

<!-- -->

-   *Matlab and Micro-Manager*
    -   [Matlab and the Micro-Manager
        core](Matlab_Configuration) - Setting up Matlab to
        control hardware through the Micro-Manager core.
    -   [Matlab and the Micro-Manager
        GUI](Matlab_and_the_Micro-Manager_GUI) - Controlling
        the Micro-Manager graphical user interface with Matlab.
    -   [Roboscope project](Roboscope_project) - Roy
        Wollman's Roboscope project

<!-- -->

-   *Python and Micro-Manager*
    -   [Using the Micro-Manager python
        library](Using_the_Micro-Manager_python_library)

<!-- -->

-   *Communicating through serial ports using a terminal application*
    -   [Windows](Windows) - Configuring HyperTerminal
    -   Useful terminal applications for Windows and Mac

<!-- -->

-   *Coordinates and Directionality in Micro-Manager*
    -   [Overview](Overview) -

<!-- -->

-   *User contributed adapters and notes*  
    Some of the Micro-Manager users have written adapters that have not
    (yet) been incorporated into the Micro-Manager distribution. We'll
    keep information on these adapters right here.
    -   [Firewire camera/LED
        synchronization](http://flybrain.mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=alex:projects:fluorescent_imaging:start) -
        A Micro-Manager plugin by Alex Hodge synchronizing multi-color
        LED illumination with a Firewire camera
    -   [RatiometricImaging_main.bsh](media/RatiometricImaging_main.bsh) -
        Beanshell for ratiometric Imaging (J. Husson).
    -   [RatiometricImaging_singleImage.bsh](media/RatiometricImaging_singleImage.bsh) -
        Beanshell for ratiometric Imaging.  
        Takes only one image, can be useful as a control before starting
        a whole acquisition with main beanshell above (J. Husson).

[MultiROI_MultiD_Acquisition](media/MultiROI_MultiD_Acquisition_V1.7_10122010_(2).bsh)
- Beanshell script for acquiring stacks in 3 different channels and at 4
different fields of view. Contributed by [Saumya
Saurabh](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~nico/MMwiki/index.php/User:Saumya)

-   *Building and Coding Micro-Manager (for developers)*
    -   [Building Boost on MacOS
        X](Building_Boost_on_MacOS_X)
    -   [Full Build on MacOS X
        Leopard](Full_Build_on_MacOS_X_Leopard) - How to
        install and build Micromanager 1.2 and dependencies (tested on
        MacOS X 10.5.2)
    -   [Building Universal Binaries on Mac OS
        X](Building_Universal_Binaries_on_Mac_OS_X)
    -   [Configuration options](Configuration_options) -
        Build options on Mac OS X and Linux
    -   [Building ACE on the Mac](Building_ACE_on_the_Mac) -
        How to build ACE on the Mac (only for MicroManager versions
        before 1.3.42)
    -   [Linux installation from source
        (Ubuntu)](Linux_installation_from_source_(Ubuntu))
    -   [Building Firewire camera support on
        Linux](Building_Firewire_camera_support_on_Linux)
    -   [Building MM on Windows](Building_MM_on_Windows) -
        Different environments and options
    -   [Compiling MM and creating deb files on 64-bit
        Ubuntu](Compiling_MM_and_creating_deb_files_on_64-bit_Ubuntu) -
        A log of things I needed to do to build 64-bit version of MM.
    -   [Using Eclipse](Using_Eclipse) - How to configure
        Eclipse to compile and debug the Micro-Manager GUI.
    -   [Using Netbeans](Using_Netbeans) - How to configure
        Netbeans to compile and debug the Micro-Manager GUI.
    -   [Debugging MM on MacOSX and
        Unix](Debugging_MM_on_MacOSX_and_Unix) - How to use
        gdb or Netbeans to debug the Micro-Manager C++ core.
    -   [Micro-Manager Coding Style and
        Conventions](Micro-Manager_Coding_Style_and_Conventions)
    -   [Writing plugins for
        Micro-Manager](Writing_plugins_for_Micro-Manager)
    -   [(Windows) tools useful for Device Adapter
        Developers]((Windows)_tools_useful_for_Device_Adapter_Developers)

<!-- -->

-   *Papers citing and/or acknowledging the use of Micro-Manager*
    -   [Papers citing
        Micro-Manager](Papers_citing_Micro-Manager) - Add
        your own paper to the list!

