---
autogenerated: true
title: GigECamera
redirect_from:
  - /wiki/GigECamera
  - /wiki/GigE
  - GigE
layout: page
---

**Summary:** An adapter for GigE cameras

**Author:** David Marshburn

**License:**

**Platforms:** Windows only.

**Requirements:** [JAI SDK and Control
Tool](http://www.jai.com/EN/CameraSolutions/Download/Pages/JAI_SDK_and_control_tool.aspx)

**Devices:** Many GigE Vision- and GenICam-compliant cameras

**Example Config File:**
[GigE-test-config.cfg](/media/files/GigE-test-config.cfg)

## About

This adapter should work with any GigE Vision- and GenICam-compliant
cameras. The adapter is based on an SDK from [JAI,
Inc.](http://www.jai.com/).

## Installation

Download and install the [JAI SDK and Control
Tool](http://www.jai.com/en/support/jai_sdk_and_control_tool). Get the
32-bit version for 32-bit micro-manager and the 64-bit version for
64-bit micro-manager.

Verify that your camera will work with the adapter by opening your
camera first in the JAI Control Tool. You may need to turn off auto
exposure and auto gain in order to change the exposure and gain in
Micro-Manager (otherwise those properties will appear as read-only).

{% include notice icon="info" content="Version mismatch between Micro-Manager and the JAI SDK can lead to subtle/intermittent/camera-dependent issues. If you are using MM 1.4.15 or earlier (or nightly build 20131002 or earlier), use JAI SDK 1.3.0; if you are using nightly build 20131003 or later, use JAI SDK 1.4.1." %}

## Notes

When loaded and initialized, the adapter will search for available GigE
cameras on the system. It will select a camera and then query the camera
for available properties from among those implemented for micro-manager.

The JAI SDK will find two "cameras" for each physical GigE camera on the
system -- the difference is in a virtual network interface. The cameras
will have extremely long names like, "TL=&gt;GevTL ,
INT=&gt;FD::MAC-&gt;00-10-18-61-73-40::Broadcom NetXtreme Gigabit
Ethernet , DEV=&gt;::MAC-&gt;00-0C-DF-03-02-A1::JAI Ltd.,
Japan::CM-030GE". The difference in the two cameras found will be in the
"INT=&gt;" part; one will contain, "INT=&gt;FD" and the other will
contain, "INT=&gt;SD". The FD ("filter driver") interface will be chosen
by default; that interface seems to avoid conflicts with Windows
Firewall.

In the GenICam specification, binning is split into horizontal and
vertical binning properties, but there is no unified binning. To be
consistent with the rest of micro-manager, this adapter attempts to
present a single binning property in addition to horizontal and vertical
binnings. Be aware that this illusion may break down at times.

## Troubleshooting

If micro-manager exits abnormally, the camera may be left in an open
state over the GigE network. If this happens, either subsequent attempts
to open the camera will fail or all the parameters/properties will be
read-only. Unplug the camera briefly then wait for the system to find
the camera again.

## Unimplemented features

-   Only monochrome image/pixel formats are implemented. Packed, Planar,
    Bayer and various color image formats are not yet implemented.
-   Any ROI features requiring action on the part of the device adapter
    are unimplmemted.
-   When switching between cameras, no attempt is made to re-create the
    properties for the adapter, although existing properties should
    update correctly.

{% include Listserv_Search text="GigE" %}

