---
autogenerated: true
title: HamamatsuHam
redirect_from: /wiki/HamamatsuHam
layout: page
---

## HamamatsuHam device adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Interfaces with Hamamatsu cameras

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Patrick Gregorio (Hamamatsu)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Source code cannot be made available

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows (see [Hamamatsu](Hamamatsu "wikilink") for Mac OS X)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Hamamatsu DCAM compatible cameras

</td>
</tr>
</table>

{% include notice icon="info" content="Formerly (up to Micro-Manager 1.4.16) there was a
legacy [Hamamatsu](Hamamatsu wikilink) adapter (developed at UCSF) in
addition to the `HamamatsuHam`. That adapter will be retired in 1.4.17.
It is still included in the OS X version, because HamamatsuHam is not
supported on OS X. On Windows, if you have a hardware configuration
using Hamamatsu, you will need to create a new hardware configuration
using HamamatsuHam." %}

Before configuring the camera, you will need to download and install a
recent version of [DCAM-API](http://www.dcamapi.com/). Make sure to read
and follow the camera-specific instructions in the DCAM-API
Compatibility Note provided on the same page.

{% include notice icon="info" content="Make sure you read the DCAM-API Compatibility Notes (available on the website), and in particular follow the instructions for computer power management settings, if it is applicable to your camera." %}

## Property Notes for Flash4v2

SENSOR MODE: Possible values AREA and PROGRESSIVE. In AREA mode, the
camera will readout from the top and bottom sections of the sensor
simultaneously starting with the center lines. In PROGRESSIVE mode, the
camera will readout from one direction only. This is called the "light
sheet mode" in the Flash4 manual. You can choose the direction of the
readout as well (READOUT DIRECTION).

The global reset function is not supported yet. This starts all rows
exposing at the same time.

ScanMode handles the readout speed. 1 = slow scan mode. 2 = fast scan
mode.

EXPOSURE FULL RANGE: When disabled, you are limited to an exposure of 10
seconds. When enabled, you are not limited and it will allow you to set
the maximum exposure time for the camera. The reason for this property
is because it is currently not possible to abort an exposure in
Micro-Manager and also because the scroll bar for the exposure time can
change the exposure quite dramatically.

{% include Listserv_Search text="Hamamatsu" %}
