---
autogenerated: true
title: Hamamatsu
redirect_from: /wiki/Hamamatsu
layout: page
---

## Hamamatsu DCAM adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Interfaces with Hamamatsu cameras

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nenad Amodaj, with contributions from Nico Stuurman (Mac adaptation).

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL (UCSF version, however, we have been asked not to distribute the
source)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Mac OS X, 32-bit only (see [HamamatsuHam](HamamatsuHam "wikilink") for
Windows)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Hamamatsu DCAM compatible cameras (only tested with Firewire cameras)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[MMConfig_ham.cfg](media/MMConfig_ham.cfg "wikilink")

</td>
</tr>
</table>

{% include notice icon="info" content="Windows users should use [[HamamatsuHam]]" %}

This adapter makes Micro-Manager work with DCAM-compatible Hamamatsu
cameras. You will need to download and install a recent version of the
[DCAM driver](http://www.dcamapi.com/). Make sure to read and follow the
camera-specific instructions in the DCAM-API Compatibility Note provided
on the same page.
{% include notice icon="info" content="DCAM version dated March 2011 does not work with Micro-Manager.  The August 2011 release works fine." %}

In the case of ORCA Flash 4.0, please read the page on [High Speed
Acquisition in
Micro-Manager](High_Speed_Acquisition_in_Micro-Manager "wikilink"). For
the ORCA Flash 4.0, trying Hamamatsu adapter first will not only get the
error message but also prevent the correct communication for trying
HamamatsuHam afterwards. Rebooting the computer reset such a case. Also,
if the computer has gone through a cycle of sleep, rebooting the
computer and the camera is needed.

If Micro-Manager reports: "No camera found" while configuring
Micro-Manager with a Hamamatsu camera, make sure that it works with the
software provided by Hamamatsu. On Windows, you can launch it by
starting the Hamamatsu installer, click the "Others" button, and select
"ExCap". Make sure that Excap finds your camera and that you can "Snap"
an image in ExCap. If ExCap does not find the camera, it is likely that
the wrong driver is installed for your Firewire Hamamatsu camera. Open
the Windows Device Manager (Start-&gt;Control
Panel-&gt;System-&gt;Hardware-&gt;Device Manager). Find the Hamamatsu
camera (it can be under "Imaging Devices"). Right click and select
"Properties". Make sure that the driver is from Hamamatsu. If it is not
(most likely alternative is that the driver is from Microsoft),
uninstall the driver, and re-install, making sure that the Hamamatsu
driver is installed this time.

This adapter does not work with all cameras that are DCAM compatible.
All firewire cameras that we tested (**AG**, **ERG2**, and **R2**) work
alright under Windows, some models had problems on some Intel Apple Macs
(share your successes!). The EM cameras (**C9100-12** and **C9100-13**)
work both on Windows and Mac (tested with MM version 1.2.31). Other
cameras with the Phoenix card may also work. In general, try before you
buy, and please provide feedback here about successes and failures.

The **ORCA-D2** was tested by us December 2011. It works well with the
HamamatsuHam adapter and the August 2011 DCAM driver. Images from both
CCDs appear as a single image in Micro-Manager. Use the
[SplitView](SplitView "wikilink") plugin to display the two CCD images
as an overlay. In the future, it will be possible to automatically apply
the SplitView transformation to images acquired using [Multi-Dimensional
Acquisition](Micro-Manager_User's_Guide#multi-dimensional-acquisition "wikilink").
If you do not want the images to be acquired simultaneously, use
property "ACTIVE VIEW INDEX" of the adapter. A setting of "0" will give
you both images, setting "1" will give you only the image from one CCD,
and setting "2" will give you the image from the other CCD.

--[Nico](/users/Nico "wikilink") 12:38, 15 July 2008 (PDT), last updated
--[Nico](/users/Nico "wikilink") 17:09, 26 August 2009 (UTC)

{% include notice icon="info" content="Make sure you read the DCAM-API Compatibility Notes (available on the website), and in particular follow the instructions for computer power management settings, if it is applicable to your camera." %}

{% include Listserv_Search text="Hamamatsu" %}


[Discussion page](/talk/Hamamatsu) for Hamamatsu imported from old wiki
