---
autogenerated: true
title: Hardware-based Synchronization in Micro-Manager
layout: page
---

### What is hardware-based synchronization?

Micro-Manager's bread and butter is multi-dimensional acquisition, where
(typically) monochrome images are acquired in different channels and at
different focal positions and XY positions. In multi-dimensional
acquisition experiments it's often desirable to acquire images as
quickly and precisely as possible, particularly across multiple channels
and slices in a given time point. Some illumination devices, such as
AOTF-based laser controllers and LED sources, can switch between
channels extremely quickly, with submillisecond switching times.
Likewise, some piezo-driven focus drives can move very fast. To take
advantage of these fast operations, one would like to minimize the
delays between setting each new channel and Z slice, and acquiring an
image from the camera.

Unfortunately, computers have limited ability to provide fast and
precise control of connected microscope hardware. Many control protocols
contain unpredictable delays. And since the commonly-used operating
systems are not "real time," there is never a guarantee that a task will
be executed within a certain time frame. To achieve the tightest
synchronization and fastest acquisition possible, it's necessary to use
external hardware to electronically synchronize the equipment.

Since 2011, Micro-Manager has included growing support for hardware
triggering of certain devices to enable this kind of synchronization. We
are pleased to note that Micro-Manager's user interface required the
addition of no new buttons, menus or other doodads to make hardware
triggering available to users. Once the microscope hardware has been set
up, users don't have to worry about the details of how channels and
slices are acquired -- they just request what images they want, and
Micro-Manager takes care of figuring out how to acquire the images,
making use of hardware triggering whenever possible.

### How hardware triggering works in Micro-Manager

Many microscope hardware components have inputs and outputs for TTL
signals (see our Micro-Manager
[tutorial](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/publications/2010EdelsteinCurrProt.pdf))
that can be used for synchronization. These TTLs are usually physically
connected by [BNC
connectors](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BNC_connector).

Micro-Manager specifically offers built-in support for hardware
triggering in which a TTL signal from the camera drives events in other
devices (i.e. the camera is the clock). The "trigger out" signal of the
camera is connected to the "trigger input" of another device controlling
the channel or Z position.

Certain Micro-Manager device adapters, when installed, indicate to the
Micro-Manager application that hardware triggering is available. In
principle, Micro-Manager's programming interface allows any property of
any device to support triggering, as well as Z stages and XY-stages
(although most XY stages will be too slow for this approach). Currently,
the device adapters that have been written to support triggering are:

-   [AgilentLaserCombiner](AgilentLaserCombiner "wikilink") -- Laser
    channel switching
-   [Arduino](Arduino "wikilink") -- TTL and DAC output states
-   [ASIStage](ASIStage "wikilink") -- ASI piezo focus drives
-   [ESIOImagingControllers](ESIOImagingControllers "wikilink") -- AOTFs
    (laser combiners) and piezo focus drives
-   [MCL NanoDrive](MCL_NanoDrive "wikilink") -- MadCityLabs piezo XY
    and Z drives
-   [M채rzh채user](Marzhauser "wikilink") (TANGO controller) -- M채rzh채user
    piezo focus drive
-   [National\_Instruments](National_Instruments "wikilink") -- TTL
    output states (1.4.22 and later)

Each of these devices has a property through which the user can turn on
and off triggering (aka "sequencing"). Please read the individual device
pages for specific instructions on how to use properties to activate
hardware synchronization. (Examples for device adapter developers how to
write code for sequencable devices can be found in the [Arduino device
adapter source
code](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/trac/micromanager/browser/DeviceAdapters/Arduino).)

When executing a multi-dimensional acquisition, Micro-Manager's
acquisition engine opportunistically and transparently uses hardware
triggering whenever possible. For instance, if the users requests a Z
stack and Micro-Manager detects that a triggerable piezo-driven Z drive
is connected, the application will automatically upload a sequence of
the desired Z positions to the piezo Z drive controller and then order
the camera to take a sequence of *n* images where *n* is the number of
slices in the stack. The trigger device will then receive TTL signals
from the camera and automatically move the Z drive through the requested
stack, so that the camera precisely images each Z slice in turn.
Micro-Manager will then attach the correct "slice index" tag in the
metadata for each image and display the images coming from the camera
appropriately as a Z stack. If Time Points have also been selected, then
Micro-Manager will run a triggered Z stack at every time point.

Likewise, if the user requests a multi-dimensional acquisition with a
sequence of channels that require only hardware-triggerable properties,
(for instance, the selection of a laser line through an AOTF
controller), then Micro-Manager will load the sequence of AOTF states to
the controller and rely on the hardware triggering to switch channels.
If multiple time points and zero interval between frames has been
requested, then channel triggering will cycle for as long as necessary
to produce a multi-channel movie.

Triggering can even be carried out with both Z-position and channel
triggering, to allow multichannel, volumetric images to be acquired very
quickly and precisely. For example, below is a movie of a dividing
Drosophila S2 cell, expressing GFP-histone 2B and Cherry-tubulin,
acquired by the Micro-Manager team as a demonstration of Micro-Manager's
hardware triggering capabilities in the [Micro-Manager booth in the
Exhibition Hall of the 2011 ASCB
Meeting](https://micro-manager.org/wiki/Micro-Manager_at_the_ASCB_Meeting_2011).
A microcontroller kindly loaned by
[ESImaing](http://www.esimaging.co.uk/products) was used to trigger both
channels and Z positions, where two channels were acquired at each of 5
slices (with 2 micron intervals) in the Z stack. Camera exposure time
was set to 50 ms; thus the total time to acquire a single time point (10
images, or 2 channels x 5 slices) was 500 msec. To produce a youtube
movie, a maximum intensity projection in each channel was carried out in
post-processing:

{% include video platform="youtube" id="O8zdsyNoOg8" %}
### Tutorials

-   [Step-by-step to controlling multiple light sources and a z-stage
    piezo for sequenceable
    MDA](https://github.com/vanNimwegenLab/MiM_NikonTi/blob/master/Docs/NikonTi_hardware_triggering.md)
    by Guillaume Witz & Thomas Julou.
