---
autogenerated: true
title: How to control your microscope with Matlab
layout: page
---

<span>**Roy Wollman, September 2, 2006 (revised November 28,
2006)**</span>  
  
  
To control the microscope from Matlab, using Micro-Manager API, there
are two options:  

1.  DIY (do it yourself)
2.  The microscopy toolbox for Matlab (see below)

  

## DIY

Matlab has an extensive Java support which makes things easy, just do
the following:

1.  Install Micro-Manager in a path without any spaces.
2.  Add the path with the drivers (all the .dll files) to the windows
    PATH enviromental variable.
3.  In command prompt  
    <big><span><font face="monospace"> \>\> edit
    classpath.txt</font></span> </big>  
    Add the location of the jar file you just installed (its in the
    Micro-Manager folder), include the .jar at the end.
4.  In command prompt  
    <big><span><font face="monospace"> \>\> edit librarypath.txt
    </font></span></big>  
    Add the location of the dll files.
5.  Restart Matlab
6.  Create a java object of class MMCore:  
        mmc = MMCore;

That's it. Now you can call all the Micro-Manager methods through that
object.  
  
For more extensive interface between Matlab and Micro-Manager, please
take a look at the Microscopy toolbox.

## Microscopy toolbox for Matlab

The microscopy toolbox is an extension / interface to μManager written
in Matlab. Its ultimate goal is to create "intelligent" microscopes that
will combine analysis and acquisitions thus creating true Roboscopes
(for more propaganda, see link below). Matlab has strong capabilities
and an extensive code base for image analysis and computer vision. The
integration between Matlab and Î¼Manager will bring image analysis and
acquisition together and is an important step toward Roboscopes. The
short terms goal of the Microscopy toolbox for Matlab is to create a
tool that will make this integration easy and simple.  
  
For more details please read the howto / manifest below. The project is
at its early stages and the code is not mature enough for release, once
we'll have the basics going we'll set up a sourceforge project and make
everything available. If you want to get involved in this project,
please contact Roy Wollman: rwollman at ucdavis dot edu  
  
[The Microscopy Toolbox for Matlab
homepage](http://www.mcb.ucdavis.edu/faculty-labs/scholey/Roy/Roboscope.html)
