---
autogenerated: true
title: Installing Micro-Manager 64 bit
layout: page
---

**An Andor camera and an automated Nikon microscope under Windows 7
x64**  
Christian Hentrich, 9/2011  
hentrich@molbio.mgh.harvard.edu

{% include Note text="This page is more about the specific devices mentioned below than Micro-Manager itself, and may be out of date even when concerning those devices. --[[User:Mark Tsuchida|Mark Tsuchida]] ([[User talk:Mark Tsuchida|talk]]) 16:02, 17 September 2013 (PDT)" %}

The obvious advantage for using 64 bit in Micro-Manager is the larger
amount of memory one can assign to ImageJ/Micro-Manager, as the 2GB per
process limit for 32 bit Windows can be very restricting.

This guide is tested for Andor cameras that connect via USB (in this
case a Luca R) and an automated Nikon microscope that is also connected
via a single USB cable (Nikon Ti Hub, as for example on an Eclipse Ti).
In my case the shutters (Sutter) are also controlled via this hub. It
might also work with similar equipment. In this guide Windows 7 x64
Professional is used, and Windows 7 x64 Ultimate or Enterprise will also
work. I am not sure if it will work with the home edition.

You should have advanced Windows experience and of course Admin
privileges. You need the following files to begin with:

-   Andor\_SDK\_X.XX.XXXXX.media/X.zip,
-   Ti\_SetupTool\_VerXXX\_64bit\_E.zip

(these two you should get directly from Andor and Nikon) and

-   MMSetup64BIT\_X.X.X.exe

(from the Micro-Manager homepage). X stands for a number. In this case,
the files used were Andor\_SDK\_2.91.30000.media/0.zip,
Ti\_SetupTool\_Ver432\_64bit\_E.zip and MMSetup64BIT\_1.4.6.exe.

1\. Install Micro-Manager  
2. Locate the Micro-Manager directory (by default c:\\program
files\\Micro-Manager-1.4 )  
3. Select the directory, right click and select properties (of the
folder)  
4. Select the tab "Security"  
5. Press "Edit"  
6. Select Users in the top box  
7. Select "Full Control" in the left column of the bottom box (under
"allow") and press apply.  
8. Close the dialogue  
This allows Micro-Manager to write into its own directory, otherwise it
will complain and not remember settings.  
9. Extract the zip files of the Andor and Nikon drivers to individual
folders (right click, extract all, "Extract").  
10. Install the Andor drivers by starting "Setup.exe" in the Andor
directory. Choose the 64 bit version.  
11. Install the Nikon drivers by starting "Setup.exe" in the Nikon
directory.  
In an ideal world we would be done by now, however the 64 bit drivers
for both devices are not signed, as you will notice when you try to
connect the USB cables of both devices now (they fail to install).
Fortunately Microsoft has left open a back door for cases like this. But
it's rather complicated.  
12. Go to the Start menu, click on "All programs", click on
"Accessories" and the right click on "Command prompt". Choose "Run as
Administrator". Then type into the command window:  
bcdedit /set loadoptions DDISABLE\_INTEGRITY\_CHECKS  
Confirm with Enter.  
13. Type "user account" into the start menu (that appears when you press
the little windows logo) search box. Select "Change User Account Control
Settings" from the results to open up the UAC control panel.  
14. Select the lowest setting on the slider and press OK, and
acknowledge all the warnings.  
15. Download the latest version of the Driver Signature Enforcement
Overrider from
<http://www.ngohq.com/home.php?page=Files&go=cat&dwn_cat_id=34> . In
this case the file used was dseo13b.exe. Some virus scanners will give
you a warning for this file as it allows deeper system access than a
user typically should have. It is safe to ignore this warning. If you
are paranoid, upload the file to an online virus scanner like
<http://www.virustotal.com> and see for yourself that it is a false
alarm.  
16. Start this tool (in my case dseo13b.exe).  
17. Once you are past the warnings and in the main menu, select the top
option "Enable Test Mode", press next and confirm.  
18. Reboot  
You are now in "Test Mode", which software developers use to test their
latest drivers. Until Andor and Nikon come up with better drivers,
you'll need to run Windows in this mode.  
19. Again start the Driver Signature Enforcement Overrider tool (in my
case dseo13b.exe).  
20. Select "Sign a System File"  
21. Type in C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\libusb0.sys (this is the
Andor Driver) and confirm with ok.  
22. Again start the tool and choose "Sign a System File"  
23. Type in C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\micusb.sys  
(this is the Nikon Driver) and confirm with ok.  
NOTE: These are the two filenames of the drivers for the current
versions. If these files are not found, the file names might have
changed. To find out the new names, connect the USB cables to the
computer. The drivers will fail to load. Then type "event" in the
windows 7 start menu and select "Event viewer" from the programs. There
should be entries under the category "Audit Failure" in the central
pane. Click on the Plus sign and double click on the entry that pops
out, Now you should have a listing of the events where a driver failed
to load due to lack of signature and the file names should be displayed
centrally for each event. Just replace "\\Device\\HarddiskVolumeX" with
"C:"  
24. Reboot  
25. **Congratulations**, you are done; all drivers should work now and
can be integrated into Micro-Manager. If you are annoyed by the "Test
mode" watermark on the desktop, you can start the Driver Signature
Enforcement Overrider tool again, select "Remove Watermarks" and follow
the instructions that come up (you need to download another tool).
Finally you should re-enable the UAC to the second highest setting (see
steps 13-14).  

Acknowledgements:  
Techspot forum: <http://www.techspot.com/vb/topic127187.html>  
