---
autogenerated: true
title: Intelligent Acquisition
redirect_from: /wiki/Intelligent_Acquisition
layout: page
---

Use image analysis to direct image acquisition and turn your microscope
in a truly automatic discovery engine.

Images acquired during the *Exploration* phase are analyzed by an ImageJ
macro (which you will need to write yourself). When the macro finds an
object of interest, Micro-Manager switches to *Imaging* settings and
acquires data of the object of interest. Optionally, the plugin can move
the object of interest to the center of the image and set a camera ROI
(you will need to run the [Pixel Calibrator
Plugin](Pixel_Calibrator_Plugin) for this to succeed). When
the *Imaging* phase ends, the plugin will continue *exploring*.

![Screen Shot of Intelligent Acquisition
plugin](media/IntAcq.png "Screen Shot of Intelligent Acquisition plugin")

You will need to define the *Exploration* and *Imaging* settings. Set up
the [MDA
window](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/MMwiki/index.php/Micro-Manager_User%27s_Guide#Multi-dimensional_acquisition)
as you desire and save the settings to a file. You will also need to
provide the location of the ImageJ macro (*Analysis macro*). An example
macro
([IA.ijm](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/trac/micromanager/browser/scripts/IA.ijm))
is provided in the *scripts* directory of Micro-Manager. The script will
analyze the current image and when it detects an object of interest, it
should provide its X and Y coordinates through the ImageJ Results Window
(use the ImageJ command *Analyze particles* with the *Centroid*
measurement selected). To develop the macro, acquire a dataset at
multiple locations and press the *Test* button of the plugin. Your macro
will be run on all sites in the dataset and the objects of interest
found will be displayed in a window. Clicking on a row in that window
will display the corresponding object.

The *Exploration Area(fields)* section of the plugin lets you define the
range (in rows and columns) of the exploration area. The *Imaging
ROI(pixels)* lets you set the size of the ROI to be used in *Imaging*
mode.

Note that the interface between this plugin and ImageJ macros may be
changed in the future. Also, it will be interesting to explore
integration of other programming environments. Extensions such as
continuous searching of the given area (i.e. do not stop after the first
round) are also possible.

--[Nico](/users/Nico) 16:54, 14 October 2012 (PDT)

