---
autogenerated: true
title: LeicaDMI
redirect_from: /wiki/LeicaDMI
layout: page
---

## Leica DMI adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td valign="top">

Controls Leica DMI and DM microscopes

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[100ximaging](http://100ximaging.com)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows, Mac OS X and Linux (serial port)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1" valign="top">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

DMI4000, DMI5000, DMI6000, DM4000, DM5000, DM6000, and DMi8 microscopes.
Some success (and failures) have been reported with microscopes using
the CTR MIC control box (DMLA100, DMLALED, DMLFSA, DMRXA2, DMRA2, and
DMIRE2).  
Scope, Shutter (external and internal), Reflectorturret, SideportTurret,
ObjectiveTurret, Excitation Lamp Switcher, Z-drive, XY-stage,
DIC-turret, AFC

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Available since version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.3.18

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1" valign=top>

**Serial port settings:**

</td>
<td markdown="1" valign=top>

|                     |                 |
|---------------------|-----------------|
| AnswerTimeout       | 5000            |
| BaudRate            | 19200           |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0               |
| Handshaking         | Off or software |
| Parity              | None            |
| StopBits            | 1               |

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

<b>Peripheral device discovery:</b>

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Supported

</td>
</tr>
</table>

This adapter controls Leica DMI microscopes through a direct serial
interface. It was build for and tested with a DMI600B, but might work
with other DMI models as well.

To use this adapter when your microscope only has a USB connector,
install the drivers provided by Leica
[Leica-USBDriver.zip](media/Leica-USBDriver.zip "wikilink") (for
Windows), or the drivers from
[FTDI](http://www.ftdichip.com/FTDrivers.htm) (for Mac OS X and Linux)
to drive the USB to serial interface inside the microscope (no other
Leica drivers are needed since the adapter communicates directly through
the serial interface). This allows you to connect to the microscope
through the USB cable. In the Hardware configuration Wizard, select the
'Leica' serial port (on Windows) or the FTDI port (Mac and Linux) and
configure it to run at 19200 baud and have a delay between chars of 0
(other settings are standard). You will always need to 'Add' the
LeicaDMI Scope device (and have it use the serial port you just
configured).

You will need to define all hardware that is part of your microscope in
the Hardware Configuration Wizard (i.e., Micro-Manager does not query
the microscope itself for devices present). Most labels (reflectors,
objectives, sideport) will be read from the controller, so you do not
need to set those in the Hardware Configuration Wizard.

{% include Listserv_Search text="DMI" %}
