_pages/Linux_installation_from_source_MM2.md, before:

---
autogenerated: true
title: Linux installation from source MM2
redirect_from: /wiki/Linux_installation_from_source_MM2
layout: page
---

Installation notes to install micro-manager from source on Ubuntu
systems. These instructions are expected to work without modifications
for installations on [Debian systems](http://debian.org) (tested on
Debian Wheezy and Debian Jessy).

{% include notice icon="info" content="This page is a work in progress and may not be accurate" %}

{% include notice icon="info" content="This page has been based off of experience building using Ubuntu 18.04" %}

# Preparation

## Install JDK

If you are building the Micro-Manager Java GUI, Java 1.8 is recommended.
The simplest way is to use OpenJDK:

{% highlight shell %}
sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk
{% endhighlight %}

## Install ImageJ

[Download the Linux version of
ImageJ](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/download.html) from the NIH website.
From a terminal, unzip to `/usr/local/`, and remove the embedded JRE, as
we already have one installed.

{% highlight shell %}
cd ~/Downloads/
sudo unzip ij*-linux*.zip -d /usr/local/
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/ImageJ/jre
sudo chmod a+Xr /usr/local/ImageJ
{% endhighlight %}

## Install Build Programs and Libraries

You will need Git and a subversion client to checkout the source code,
several libraries, and build tools. Install them with:

{% highlight shell %}
sudo apt install git-all subversion build-essential autoconf automake libtool \
                     autoconf-archive pkg-config \
                     libboost-all-dev zlib1g-dev swig ant
{% endhighlight %}

{% include notice icon="info" content="As of 3/16/2021 Swig 4 will not work with Micro-Manager. Please make sure to install Swig 3. This issue will hopefully be resolved in the future" %}

You may also need to install additional packages (for cameras and
special hardware). See the full list in
[Dependencies](#dependencies)

## Fetch Source Repositories

Create a directory for the the repositories, such as `~/mm`. Besides the
source tree, additional binary dependencies are stored in the
`3rdpartypublic` repository. The build scripts in the source tree assume
`3rdpartypublic` is in the same parent folder level:

{% highlight shell %}
mkdir ~/mm
cd ~/mm
git clone https://github.com/micro-manager/micro-manager.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
svn co https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/svn/3rdpartypublic/
{% endhighlight %}

This creates 2 new folders in the `mm` directory:

```
    ~/mm/micro-manager
    ~/mm/3rdpartypublic
```

Subversion (svn) will likely complain saying that it cannot verify the
https certificate. Typing \*\*t\*\* to temporarily trust the certificate
allows to retrieve the repository.

Also, when retrieving large repository (like the 3rdpartypublic/
repository), svn can hung in the middle of the process, with an error
message:

    svn: REPORT de '/svn/3rdpartypublic/!svn/vcc/default':
    Could not read chunk delimiter: Secure connection truncated (https://valelab4.ucsf.edu)

This can be
[solved](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4031845/svn-resuming-aborted-checkout#13789596)
by typing:

{% highlight shell %}
svn cleanup 3rdpartypublic/
svn update 3rdpartypublic/ # This command might be executed several times
{% endhighlight %}

# Building Micro-Manager

## Create the Autotools files

{% highlight shell %}
cd ~/mm/micro-manager
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-imagej-plugin=/usr/local/ImageJ
{% endhighlight %}

## Download build dependencies

{% highlight shell %}
make fetchdeps
{% endhighlight %}

## Compile

{% highlight shell %}
make
{% endhighlight %}

## Install

{% highlight shell %}
sudo make install
{% endhighlight %}

# Post Install

## Editing the startup script

A script named `mmimagej` will have been installed in
`/usr/local/ImageJ`. You might want to edit its contents to pass extra
flags to Java. You may also want to put this script in your `PATH`.

# Running Micro-Manager

Start Micro-Manager by typing:

{% highlight shell %}
/usr/local/ImageJ/mmimagej 2>&1 >/dev/null &
{% endhighlight %}

To view the Core logging in the terminal while Micro-Manager is running,
start simply as:

{% highlight shell %}
/usr/local/ImageJ/mmimagej
{% endhighlight %}

# Appendix

## Dependencies

| Name                                          | Equivalent Synaptic package name |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Required Dependencies:                        |                                  |
| Subversion                                    | `subversion`                     |
| GNU C++                                       | `build-essential`                |
| GNU Autotools                                 | `autoconf`, `automake`           |
| GNU Libtool                                   | `libtool`                        |
| Boost libraries                               | `libboost-all-dev`               |
| zlib compression library                      | `zlib1g-dev`                     |
| Simplified Wrapper and Interface Library      | `swig`                           |
| OpenJDK                                       | `openjdk-8-jdk`                  |
| Optional Dependencies:                        |                                  |
| Python                                        | `python-dev`, `python-numpy-dev` |
| Firewire Camera Library                       | `libdc1394-*-dev`                |
| Open Source Computer Vision Library           | `libopencv-dev`                  |
| GPhoto2                                       | `libgphoto2-2-dev`               |
| FreeImagePlus (used by GPhoto device adapter) | `libfreeimage-dev`               |
| libusb 0.1                                    | `libusb-dev`                     |
| Andor SDK 2/3                                 | N/A - request from Andor website |

You need the following packages:

Commit message:

Link to official instructions for MM2 Linux build

_pages/Linux_installation_from_source_MM2.md, after:

---
autogenerated: true
title: Linux installation from source MM2
redirect_from: /wiki/Linux_installation_from_source_MM2
layout: page
---

{% include notice icon="info" content="For up-to-date instructions for building on Linux, please see the [`doc/how-to-build.md` file](https://github.com/micro-manager/micro-manager/blob/main/doc/how-to-build.md) in the source code repository. However, some of the device dependency information below may still be useful." %}

Installation notes to install micro-manager from source on Ubuntu
systems. These instructions are expected to work without modifications
for installations on [Debian systems](http://debian.org) (tested on
Debian Wheezy and Debian Jessy).

{% include notice icon="info" content="This page is a work in progress and may not be accurate" %}

{% include notice icon="info" content="This page has been based off of experience building using Ubuntu 18.04" %}

# Preparation

## Install JDK

If you are building the Micro-Manager Java GUI, Java 1.8 is recommended.
The simplest way is to use OpenJDK:

{% highlight shell %}
sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk
{% endhighlight %}

## Install ImageJ

[Download the Linux version of
ImageJ](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/download.html) from the NIH website.
From a terminal, unzip to `/usr/local/`, and remove the embedded JRE, as
we already have one installed.

{% highlight shell %}
cd ~/Downloads/
sudo unzip ij*-linux*.zip -d /usr/local/
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/ImageJ/jre
sudo chmod a+Xr /usr/local/ImageJ
{% endhighlight %}

## Install Build Programs and Libraries

You will need Git and a subversion client to checkout the source code,
several libraries, and build tools. Install them with:

{% highlight shell %}
sudo apt install git-all subversion build-essential autoconf automake libtool \
                     autoconf-archive pkg-config \
                     libboost-all-dev zlib1g-dev swig ant
{% endhighlight %}

{% include notice icon="info" content="As of 3/16/2021 Swig 4 will not work with Micro-Manager. Please make sure to install Swig 3. This issue will hopefully be resolved in the future" %}

You may also need to install additional packages (for cameras and
special hardware). See the full list in
[Dependencies](#dependencies)

## Fetch Source Repositories

Create a directory for the the repositories, such as `~/mm`. Besides the
source tree, additional binary dependencies are stored in the
`3rdpartypublic` repository. The build scripts in the source tree assume
`3rdpartypublic` is in the same parent folder level:

{% highlight shell %}
mkdir ~/mm
cd ~/mm
git clone https://github.com/micro-manager/micro-manager.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
svn co https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/svn/3rdpartypublic/
{% endhighlight %}

This creates 2 new folders in the `mm` directory:

```
    ~/mm/micro-manager
    ~/mm/3rdpartypublic
```

Subversion (svn) will likely complain saying that it cannot verify the
https certificate. Typing \*\*t\*\* to temporarily trust the certificate
allows to retrieve the repository.

Also, when retrieving large repository (like the 3rdpartypublic/
repository), svn can hung in the middle of the process, with an error
message:

    svn: REPORT de '/svn/3rdpartypublic/!svn/vcc/default':
    Could not read chunk delimiter: Secure connection truncated (https://valelab4.ucsf.edu)

This can be
[solved](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4031845/svn-resuming-aborted-checkout#13789596)
by typing:

{% highlight shell %}
svn cleanup 3rdpartypublic/
svn update 3rdpartypublic/ # This command might be executed several times
{% endhighlight %}

# Building Micro-Manager

## Create the Autotools files

{% highlight shell %}
cd ~/mm/micro-manager
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-imagej-plugin=/usr/local/ImageJ
{% endhighlight %}

## Download build dependencies

{% highlight shell %}
make fetchdeps
{% endhighlight %}

## Compile

{% highlight shell %}
make
{% endhighlight %}

## Install

{% highlight shell %}
sudo make install
{% endhighlight %}

# Post Install

## Editing the startup script

A script named `mmimagej` will have been installed in
`/usr/local/ImageJ`. You might want to edit its contents to pass extra
flags to Java. You may also want to put this script in your `PATH`.

# Running Micro-Manager

Start Micro-Manager by typing:

{% highlight shell %}
/usr/local/ImageJ/mmimagej 2>&1 >/dev/null &
{% endhighlight %}

To view the Core logging in the terminal while Micro-Manager is running,
start simply as:

{% highlight shell %}
/usr/local/ImageJ/mmimagej
{% endhighlight %}

# Appendix

## Dependencies

| Name                                          | Equivalent Synaptic package name |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Required Dependencies:                        |                                  |
| Subversion                                    | `subversion`                     |
| GNU C++                                       | `build-essential`                |
| GNU Autotools                                 | `autoconf`, `automake`           |
| GNU Libtool                                   | `libtool`                        |
| Boost libraries                               | `libboost-all-dev`               |
| zlib compression library                      | `zlib1g-dev`                     |
| Simplified Wrapper and Interface Library      | `swig`                           |
| OpenJDK                                       | `openjdk-8-jdk`                  |
| Optional Dependencies:                        |                                  |
| Python                                        | `python-dev`, `python-numpy-dev` |
| Firewire Camera Library                       | `libdc1394-*-dev`                |
| Open Source Computer Vision Library           | `libopencv-dev`                  |
| GPhoto2                                       | `libgphoto2-2-dev`               |
| FreeImagePlus (used by GPhoto device adapter) | `libfreeimage-dev`               |
| libusb 0.1                                    | `libusb-dev`                     |
| Andor SDK 2/3                                 | N/A - request from Andor website |

You need the following packages:
