---
autogenerated: true
title: Ludl
layout: page
---

## Ludl adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Interfaces with Ludl MAC controllers and associated hardware

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman (based on a version by Nenad Amodaj)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

All (uses serial interface)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Controller, Shutter, Filter Wheel, XY Stage

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

<b>Automated Serial Port Setup:</b>

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Yes

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

<b>Peripheral device discovery:</b>

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Supported

</td>
</tr>
</table>

This adapter controls equipment through the [Ludl](http://www.ludl.com/)
MAC family of controllers. It has been developed for the
[MAC5000](http://www.ludl.com/pageDisplay.aspx?menumode=BIO&PageReq=MAC5000)
controller but also works with MAC2000 controllers (for the newer
MAC6000 controller see below).

All communications to devices take place through the Controller device
(i.e., the MAC5000). Set the Serial port to use 9600 baud and 2
stopbits. For the MAC5000 you can set the serial port property
'DelayBetweenCharsMs' to 0 to increase speed, however, for the MAC2000
controllers you will need to set this property to 10 or higher. You
might also want to increase the AnswerTimeout of the serial port to 2
sec. If you make movements with your stage that take a long time,
increase the AnswerTimeout of the serial port even more (so that the
port will not time out before the movement finishes).

The adapter uses the 'high level' command interface (is there anyone who
feels like implementing the low level interface?) Currently, you can
only use one controller. You need to set the serial port for
communication with the controller, and you can define the
'transmissiondelay' (0.5 msec between chars send by the controller to
the computer). It is probably safe to set this value to 1 (the lowest)
with modern computers.

There can be up to 5 'devices' (i.e., controller cards) per controller,
and each controller card can have 3 shutters and 2 filter wheels. You
will therefore need to specify for each Wheel and Shutter a device
number (1-5 and WheelNumber (1-2) or ShutterNumber (1-3).

The XYStage will let you set some parameters concerning the speed of the
stage (Speed, StartSpeed, Acceleration). See the
[manual](http://www.ludl.com/DocLib.aspx) for definitions of these
terms.

To use a Z-drive (focus drive), you will need to specify the letter
under which it is known by the Ludl controller as a pre-initialization
property. Confusingly, this is often not "Z", but "B". If you can not
figure it out, open the file "Corelog.txt" in your Micro-Manager
directory. It contains some output from the Ludl controller that you can
use to deduce the drive letter.

--[Nico](/users/Nico "wikilink") 13:43, 25 August 2007 (PDT)

If using an actual serial cable, ensure that the cable is of the ["null
modem"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Null_modem) type.

--[oreopoj](/users/oreopoj "wikilink") 14:19, 8 September 2010 (EST)

The Ludl MAC6000's USB port can be configured to act as a virtual COM
port. If you have the original CD that came with your Ludl equipment,
you can useit; otherwise, download the content of the Contents of
MAC6000 CD Rev.E [here](http://www.ludl.com/Downloads.aspx). Expand the
zip file and look for a folder called 'VCP\_setup' located here: CD -
MAC6000 SDK - REVE/Drivers/Virtual Com driver/VCP\_Setup. There is a pdf
file in the folder that clearly indicates all the steps but be careful
to NOT have your MAC6000 connected until the very end of the procedure
as indicated.

Check that your device is present under COM and LPT ports in Windows'
device manager and fully recognised (plug and unplug your USB to check
the connectivity). Then go to MicroManager Hardware wizard, install the
LUDL controller and its peripherals (depends on your configuration, for
me it's a XY stage). Indicate the COM port (although it should be
automatically detected) and enjoy!

If you are running Windows 7, you MUST turn off the MAC6000 before
turning off the computer otherwise, you'll get a BSOD (related to a bug
in the VCP driver).

-- Alex Carisey (copied from mailling list) 08:22, 16 February 2012
(PST)

