---
autogenerated: true
title: Lumencor Light Engine
redirect_from: /wiki/Lumencor_Light_Engine
layout: page
---

## Lumencor Light Engine

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Supports all Lumencor Light Engine models

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nenad Amodaj

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows only

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

all models

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Interface**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Serial, USB and Ethernet

</td>
</tr>
</table>

This adapter is intended for all Light Engine models in micro-manager,
including the latest "GEN3" light sources such as Spectra 3, Aura 3,
Celesta, etc.

Lumencor is officially supporting this adapter for all "GEN3" light
engines and for all future models. For older (legacy) light engines such
as SpectraX, Aura 2, Lida, although functionality is available and
thoroughly tested prior to release, support is not available, other than
"as is" function of this adapter.

If you are not sure whether your Light Engine Model is "GEN3" or one of
the legacy ones, look for Ethernet connector on the front panel. If it
has Ethernet socket it is a GEN3 model. Most GEN3 models also have a
small LCD screen.

For any support issues or compatibility questions please contact
[Lumencor Tech Support](https://lumencor.com/tech-support/)

### Installation and Setup

#### Legacy Light Engines

Legacy light engines have only RS232 and USB connectors which operate at
fixed baud rate of 9600 baud. Using either is the same and there is
nothing to set up. In micro-manager Configuration Wizard select
"Lumencor" adapter, and set "Connection" to the appropriate COM port and
the "Model" to whatever light engine model you have. If you set "GEN3"
model with a legacy light engine, it won't work and the light engine
must be rebooted before re-connecting.

#### GEN3 Light Engines

GEN3 light engines (distinguishable by the presence of Ethernet
connector) provide three ways of connecting Light Engine to the host
computer: RS232, USB and Ethernet. USB also appears to the host computer
as com port.

GEN3 light engines flexible and can be configured in several different
ways, but here we are only going to consider a default configuration.
For more information about the setup options and documentation contact
Lumencor support.

Typically GEN3 ships with the following settings:

-   RS232 - 115200 baud, standard command set
-   USB - 9600 baud, legacy command set (emulation of old models such as
    SpectraX)
-   Ethernet - 1 GbE socket, static IP address, standard command set

With micro-manager and GEN3 you should use only RS232 or Ethernet. Do
not use USB port unless you were able to change it from default, i.e.
set it up for standard command set instead of legacy.

In Hardware Configuration Wizard set "Model" to GEN3 and "Connection" to
either IP address of the light engine or COM port, depending on which
connection you wish to use.
