---
autogenerated: true
title: MaestroServo
layout: page
---

## Pololu Maestro Servo controller adapter

<table cellspacing=3>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1" valign="top">

Interface to [Pololu Maestro Servo
controllers](http://www.pololu.com/docs/0J40/all)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows, Linux

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Available since version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.3.46

</td>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Serial Port settings**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Irrelevant, but set the controller to "USB dual port" first

</table>

This adapter lets you use servos together with your microscope
equipment. We are using this in the lab to move a half wave plate in and
out of the laser beam path under computer control (directing laser
output to either of two fibers, due to a polarizing beam splitter in the
light path). The adapter has been tested under Windows, but should also
work on Linux.

To use this adapter, first download and install the [drivers and control
software from
Pololu](http://www.pololu.com/file/download/media/Maestro_windows_100506.zip?file_id=0J266).
Make sure that your servo works with the Pololu software, using their
excellent [documentation](http://www.pololu.com/docs/0J40/all) as a
guide. in the Pololu software, under the "Serial Settings" tab, select
"USB Dual Port". The Pololu will create two additional virtual COM ports
on your computer. In the Micro-Manager Hardware Configuration Manager,
select the first of those two ports. The serial port settings should not
matter (but I like to set the baud rate to 57600 anyways;). Set the
minimum and maximum position to something reasonable (this depends on
your servo, some servos do not like extreme settings, see the Pololu
documentation for details, I use 900-2000).

<b>Limitations:</b> This adapter is written to work with only a single
Maestro controller. The code also compiles on the Mac, but there does
not seem to be a driver that makes the controller appear as a serial
port on Mac OS X.

{% include Devices_Sidebar text="" %}
