---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager Installation Notes
redirect_from: /wiki/Micro-Manager_Installation_Notes
layout: page
section: Downloads
nav-links:
- title: Latest Release
  url: /Download_Micro-Manager_Latest_Release
- title: Nightly Builds
  url: /Micro-Manager_Nightly_Builds
- title: Old Versions
  url: /Micro-Manager_Version_Archive
- title: Installation Notes
  url: /Micro-Manager_Installation_Notes
- title: Source Code
  url: /Micro-Manager_Source_Code
---


  
After you install Micro-Manager using the instructions for your
platform, you can test-drive the software in demo-mode. The application
will start in demo-mode by default after installation. To use
Micro-Manager with an actual microscope you will need to configure the
software for the specific hardware components that are part of your
setup.  

The configuration process includes editing configuration files and is
described in the [Configuration Guide](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide).
Installation includes a number of sample hardware configuration
files (with extension \*.cfg) provided only as an example or starting
point - they need to be edited in order to use the system with any
particular hardware setup.  


## Windows

Run the installer (MM\_Setup\_x\_y\_zz.exe) and follow the prompts. The
package includes a copy of ImageJ; it may be necessary to install or
update [Java](http://java.com) on your computer. Besides the
manufacturer's low-level drivers for your camera and possibly other
equipment, no other software is required to fully use Micro-Manager.
Micro-Manager will be installed in C:\\Program Files\\Micro-Manager-x.y.

There are no particular hardware or software requirements. Micro-Manager
works on Window 7 or 10 running as either 32-bit or 64-bit. However,
some devices will only work using 32-bit drivers. Micro-Manager has also
been reported to work with Windows Vista.

Currently, the Micro-Manager installer is not signed. This can cause
issues with Windows not trusting the software. If you see the blue
"Windows Protected your PC" dialog, click on "More Info", which will
unveil the "Run Anyway" button. If the "Windows Protected your PC"
dialog is red, you have multiple options. You can go to Windows
Settings, Update & Security, Windows Security, App & Browser control,
Reputation based Protection Settings, switch off "Check apps and files".
Or, you can right click on the installer and select "Unblock".

## Mac OS X

Double click the file Micro-Manager1.x.x that you just downloaded (see
[Download Micro-Manager Latest
Release](Download_Micro-Manager_Latest_Release)). This will
open a drive called 'Micro-Manager'. The drive is on the desktop and in
every Finder Window. Open the drive (by double-clicking). In the drive
there is a folder called Micro-Manager1.x. You can install the
application by dragging this folder to your Applications folder, or you
can launch the application by opening the folder and double clicking the
'ImageJ' icon. If you want to run the 64-bit version of Micro-Manager,
click the "ImageJ64" icon.

Mac OS X security policies mandate a couple of extra steps (which may be
different in different versions of the OS). Go to "System Preferences"
&gt; "Security&Privacy" Click the lock in the bottom left corner,
provide an administrator password, then start up the ImageJ app. When
you go to "Plugins" in the menu, and see the item "Why are plugins
missing?", you will need to quit ImageJ and move the ImageJ.app to the
desktop, then move it back. On some Macs you will need to press the
option (or ctrl) key while dragging the app to actually move it rather
them make a shortcut (don't ask me why, but Macs have become very
confusing machines). If Micro-Manager still does not start, check the
Java version by clicking in the lower part of the ImageJ window. If you
see that the Java version is 1.6, you need to install Java 8. Currently,
you can get this from multiple sources, I like
[adoptopenjdk](http://adoptopenjdk.net). Download and install the latest
version. If ImageJ still picks Java 6, try copying the "jre" directory
of the adoptopenjdk installation into the Micro-Manager directory.

On MacOS Catalina 10.15.7, and later, the gatekeeper then complains that
nothing is signed by a verified developer. The solution to that involves
a very large amount of clicking (you have to click several buttons per
device adapter to tell gatekeeper that you really do want to run them…)

There is a better solution: open a terminal and run

```
sudo xattr -r -d com.apple.quarantine <Path to Micromanager Install>
```

for instance:

```
sudo xattr -r -d com.apple.quarantine /Applications/Micro-Manager-2.0.0
```

By default, after the first installation Micro-Manager starts with the
Demo configuration which loads software simulators for a number of
commonly used devices. This configuration can be used to explore
Micro-Manager features, train novice users and as a reference point for
troubleshooting.  


## Linux

Micro-manager should work with most standard Linux distributions (e.g.,
Ubuntu, Fedora, Gentoo). However, no pre-compiled version is provided,
and you need to compile and install it from source. See:

-   [Linux installation from source
    (Ubuntu)](Linux_installation_from_source_(Ubuntu))
-   [Linux installation from source
    (Gentoo)](Linux_installation_from_source_(Gentoo))

## If you already use ImageJ

Micro-Manager is packaged as an [ImageJ](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/)
plug-in and contains a copy of the entire ImageJ application, together
with the Java run-time engine. Starting Micro-Manager will automatically
start ImageJ as well. If you already use ImageJ and have it installed on
your machine beforehand, the original installation will not be affected.
Micro-Manager installs and uses its own copy of ImageJ. However, if you
have any existing ImageJ macros or plugins that you want to use with
Micro-Manager, you will have to copy them manually to the appropriate
sub-folders within the root Micro-Manager folder.  

Migrating your favorite ImageJ plugins to Micro-Manager installation
should not cause any problems.

