---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager FAQ-new
section: User Documentation
layout: page
---

### Something does not work. What do I do?

1\) Try downloading and installing the latest [Nightly
Build](Micro-Manager_Nightly_Builds "wikilink") and check if the problem
still persists.

2\) If the issue still remains click 'Help' on the main window -&gt;
then click 'Report Problem'.

-   In this panel you will need to fill in your name, organization,
    email and a description of the problem.

<!-- -->

-   You will then notice a dialogue in the bottom which will guide you
    to sending us the report.

<!-- -->

-   This report will also consists of a log file and your configuration
    settings.

<!-- -->

-   All of this information will then be packaged and sent to us via
    email. We will then be able respond back and assist you with a
    better understanding of your situation.

# As compared to the previous

### Something does not work. What do I do?

Download and install the latest [Nightly
Build](Micro-Manager_Nightly_Builds "wikilink") and check if the problem
still persists. Send an email describing your problem to the
[Micro-Manager mailing
list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/micro-manager-general).
Describe your system (OS, attached hardware), and describe the steps
that lead to the problem you encounter as well as the error message you
see. Include the configuration file that you are using (the \*.cfg file
you select on startup). Please do not send screenshots!

If the problem is not resolvable through the email list, you will need
to send more debug information. To do so, go to the 'Tools' menu in
Micro-Manager and select 'Options...'. Click the 'Clear log file' button
and make sure that the 'Debug log enabled' checkbox is checked. Now
repeat the steps that cause the error and then email the entire
'CoreLog.txt' file (in your Micro-Manager directory) to
[info@micro-manager.org](mailto::info@micro-manager.org) together with
your config file and a description of the problem (include the error
message on the screen). We will likely need your help to test some code
modifications to deal with your problem.

In some cases, even more debug output can be obtained by running
Micro-Manager from a command terminal. On the Mac:  
1. open a terminal (Applications/Utilities/Terminal)  
2. Type: cd /Applications/Micro-Manager1.3  
3. Start Micro-Manager by typing: java -cp ij.jar ij.ImageJ  
4. Copy relevant output from the terminal into your email.  
On Windows:  
1. open a terminal (Start-&gt;Run..., type 'cmd', click 'OK')  
2. Type: cd "C:\\Program Files\\Micro-Manager1.3"  
3. Start Micro-Manager by typing: jre\\bin\\java -cp ij.jar ij.ImageJ  
4. Copy relevant output from the terminal into your email.  
Some problems are only due to missing .dll files required by
Micro-Manager's device drivers. To find out whether that is the case,
use [Dependency Walker](http://www.dependencywalker.com/) on Windows,
*otool -L* on MacOSX or *ldd* on Linux to determine the status of the
dependencies of the Micro-Manager driver (i.e. a file whose name starts
with *mmgr\_dal\_* in the Micro-Manager directory).
