---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager-new
redirect_from: /wiki/Micro-Manager-new
layout: page
---


### The Open Source Microscopy Software

μManager is a software package for control of automated microscopes. It
lets you execute common microscope image acquisition strategies such as
time-lapses, multi-channel imaging, z-stacks, and combinations thereof.
μManager works with microscopes from all four major manufacturers
(Leica, Nikon, Olympus and Zeiss), most scientific-grade cameras and
many peripherals (stages, filter wheels, shutters, etc.) used in
microscope imaging (check the [list of supported
hardware](Device_Support "wikilink")). Since μManager runs as a plugin
to [ImageJ](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/), image analysis routines are
available within the application. μManager software is available for
multiple platforms (Windows, Mac, and Linux) and is free.
[Download](Download_Micro-Manager_Latest_Release "wikilink") the most
recent version (1.4) from our website.

### ANOTHER MICROSCOPY SOFTWARE PACKAGE? WHY?

You have a choice of many commercial packages available, too many,
perhaps. Some are produced by microscope or camera manufacturers, others
by third parties but they all suffer from the same problems: lack of
flexibility and proprietary drivers - [read
more...](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/MMwiki/index.php/Why_Micro-Manager%3F)

### DECIDE IF YOU SHOULD GIVE IT A TRY

If you like and use ImageJ, if you are new to microscopy, or if you have
limited resources, Micro-Manager will be your natural first choice. But
if you do have a comfortable budget, or if you are already used to
another software package, you'll have to make a decision whether to
invest time and energy in μManager. As with everything else, there are
some pros and cons. [Should you give it a
try?](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/MMwiki/index.php/Who_should_use_Micro-Manager)

### HARDWARE ISSUES

If you are putting together or building a serious, automated microscopy
system, open source solutions like this one may be a much better choice
than anything else. You can use our default, ImageJ-compatible user
interface, or build you own. Micro-Manager will even let you control
your microscope from Matlab programs. In any case, whether you can use
it right away or not depends on whether your particular hardware is
supported. If not, contact us and express your desire. [Check the
current hardware
list](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/MMwiki/index.php/Device_Support)

### EXTENDING μMANAGER

Even if you are not interested in writing software code for your
microscope, the open software architecture of μManager will benefit you.
For instance, the Open Device Interface lets anyone write code to
control microscope-related equipment, resulting a large and growing list
of supported equipment. A scripting interface makes it possible to
accomplish tasks that can not be execute within the GUI. Lastly, the
μManager programming interface can be used from many different
environments (including Matlab) to develop new applications, all using
the same μManager Microscope device control.
