---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager FAQ
layout: page
---

**Micro-Manager, Frequently Asked Questions**

### Does Micro-Manager work with ... camera/microscope/etc?

Check the list of [supported hardware](Device_Support "wikilink"). If
you are unsure, post your question to the [Mailing
List](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/micro-manager-general)

### There is an ImageJ driver for my camera. Can I use the camera with Micro-Manager?

Not necessarily. Micro-Manager provides an identical interface to all
cameras, which means that scripts and applications written using
Micro-Manager will work with all supported cameras. ImageJ camera
drivers do not work that way (i.e., they are all different, and
Micro-Manager has no way of operating with them), so whether or not
there is an ImageJ driver for a device has no bearing on it working with
Micro-Manager. In technical terms, to make a camera work in
Micro-Manager, you will need a Micro-Manager device adapter (written in
C++), which is very different from an ImageJ camera driver. Check the
list of [supported hardware](Device_Support "wikilink") to see if there
is a Micro-Manager device adapter for your camera.

### Why are my images being displayed incorrectly on screen?

Sometimes ImageJ and Micro-Manager images show strange blocky artifacts
on Windows XP. You may be able to fix this problem by turning off
Direct3D for Java. To do so, set the following environment variable in
your system:

    Variable: J2D_D3D
    Value: false

(To edit environment variables, right click on My Computer, select
Properties &gt; Advanced &gt; Environment Variables)

### I have some hardware that is not supported by Micro-Manager. How do I make it work?

First, contact the manufacturer of the hardware and express your
interest in a Micro-Manager adapter. We simply do not have the resources
to work on every piece of hardware out there and we made an open
interface so that everyone can write support for any piece of hardware.
We strongly encourage companies producing hardware to take care of
Micro-Manager support themselves (and quite a few have already done so).
The company might be persuaded if they hear from enough customers.
Alternatively, you can write the adapter yourself, or find a friend with
experience writing code in C++ (there are quite a few examples so it
will not be extremely difficult). There is a [Micro-Manager Device
Developer's Kit for
Windows](Micro-Manager_Device_Developer's_Kit_for_Windows "wikilink"),
and providing support to people writing device adapters is one of our
top priorities. Lastly, post your request to the [Micro-Manager mailing
list](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/micro-manager-general).
We or others might be persuaded to work on this if we hear that people
need it.

### Does Micro-Manager work with my Axiocam camera?

**Update:** As of Micro-Manager version 1.4.13 or so, the [AxioCam
MR](AxioCam_MR "wikilink") is supported. If you need support for other
models, please let us know.

### When I do something on my system that takes more than a few seconds, I get the error: "Wait for device X timed out after 5000ms". How do I fix this?

In the Device/Property browser, set the property: "Core-TimoutMs" to a
value higher than 5000ms (just a bit longer than it takes your device to
do whatever it is doing). To make this setting persist through
Micro-Manager restarts, add it to the System - Startup group (see
[Micro-Manager\_Configuration\_Guide\#Startup\_Presets](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide#startup-presets "wikilink"))

### Something does not work. What do I do?

1\) Try downloading and installing the latest [Nightly
Build](Micro-Manager_Nightly_Builds "wikilink") and check if the problem
still persists.

2\) If the issue still remains click 'Help' on the main window -&gt;
then click 'Report Problem'.

-   In this panel you will need to fill in your name, organization,
    email and a description of the problem.

<!-- -->

-   You will then notice a dialogue in the bottom which will guide you
    to sending us the report.

<!-- -->

-   This report will also consists of a log file and your configuration
    settings.

<!-- -->

-   All of this information will then be packaged and sent to us via
    email. We will then be able respond back and assist you with a
    better understanding of your situation.

### How do I get Micro-Manager to prompt me to manually put specific filters in place?

See
[Using\_Multi-Dimensional\_Acquisition\_with\_a\_manual\_microscope](Using_Multi-Dimensional_Acquisition_with_a_manual_microscope "wikilink")

### Citing Micro-Manager

You can cite either:  
\* Arthur Edelstein, Nenad Amodaj, Karl Hoover, Ron Vale, and Nico
Stuurman (2010) Computer Control of Microscopes Using μManager.
**Current Protocols in Molecular Biology** 14.20.1-14.20.17  
\* Stuurman, N., Amodaj N., Vale, R.D. (2007). Micro-Manager: Open
Source software for light microscope imaging. **Microscopy Today**.
15(3):42-43.  
and/or the website:  
\* µManager (http://www.micro-manager.org)

Also, please update "[Papers citing
Micro-Manager](Papers_citing_Micro-Manager "wikilink")" with a reference
to your paper. We will need this information to secure future funding.


[Discussion page](/talk/Micro-Manager_FAQ) for Micro-Manager_FAQ imported from old wiki
