---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager Source Code
layout: page
section: Downloads
---

{% include Downloads_Sidebar text="" %} 
 The source code
includes all Micro-Manager files (Java and C++) and all supporting files
(project files, build scripts, etc.). However, to build the entire
project a number of Open Source libraries and device SDKs must be
installed. Instructions for building Micro-Manager are available for
[Mac](Full_Build_on_MacOS_X_Leopard "wikilink"),
[Windows](Building_MM_on_Windows "wikilink"), and
[Linux](Linux_installation_from_source_(Ubuntu) "wikilink").

## Note about the source code licensing terms

Micro-Manager is structured in three distinct layers: Graphical User
Interface (GUI), Device Adapters and MMCore. All source files, except
ones carrying a different license notice in the header, are copyright of
University of California. GUI and Device adapters are distributed under
the "[BSD](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)" license,
while MMCore is distributed under "[Lesser
GPL](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-license.php)" license.
License text files are included in the source package, and each file
should have a header stating the exact type of license. A good starting
point to learn more about the Open Source Code licensing is
<http://www.opensource.org/>. If you have any questions or need some
clarification regarding our licensing terms please let us know:
<info@micro-manager.org>

## Github repository for 2.0

The source code for 2.0-gamma is located on github at:

<https://github.com/micro-manager/micro-manager> in the master branch.
The branch "svn-mirror" is a copy of the 1.4 subversion repository (see
below).

As of April 2021 the source code has been split into multiple Git
repositories which are used as submodules of the main repository. In
order to fully clone the source code please follow these instructions:

1: Clone the main repository: "git clone
<https://github.com/micro-manager/micro-manager>"

2: Initialize all submodules: "git submodule update --init --recursive"

When updating to a new revision of the repository using \`git pull\` it
is a good idea to run the command in step 2 in order to make sure that
all submodules are also up to date.

## Subversion repository for 1.4

To access the subversion repository you will need a [subversion
client](http://subversion.tigris.org/).

<https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/trunk/> - Release 1.4  
<https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/svn/3rdpartypublic/> - 3rd party files needed
for Release 1.4  
&lt;INCLUDE Note text="There is a bug in the Subversion 1.8 client that
prevents you from checking out our public repositories without a
username. If Subversion asks you for a username and password, you can
use the username "guest" (password "guest") as a workaround. Subversion
1.7.x clients should not experience this problem.ðŸ˜Ž"&gt;

&lt;INCLUDE Note text="Sometimes, a fresh checkout of the 3rdpartypublic
repository will fail (possibly due to the subversion server timeout
settings) with
`ra_surf: The server sent a truncated HTTP response body`. To work
around this, run `svn cleanup` and then `svn up` per
[1](http://stackoverflow.com/a/33996416) (on Windows, Tortoise SVN users
can right click inside the 3rdpartypublic directory &gt; TortoiseSVN
&gt; Cleaup ... &gt; Break locks (make sure it's checked) &gt; OK). Then
continue with right-click, "SVN update". This timeout will happen twice
during boost checkout because of the large file sizes.ðŸ˜Ž"&gt;

To build Micro-Manager 1.4, you should place the micromanager2 (trunk)
and 3rdpartypublic repositories in the same directory. For example, run
the following from your projects directory:

```
svn checkout https://valelab.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/trunk micromanager
svn checkout https://valelab.ucsf.edu/svn/3rdpartypublic
```

More information on how to build Micro-Manager can be found here:

-   [Building Micro-Manager Device
    Adapters](Building_Micro-Manager_Device_Adapters "wikilink")
-   [Building and debugging Micro-Manager source
    code](Building_and_debugging_Micro-Manager_source_code "wikilink")

## Source code for previous releases

<https://valelab.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/branches/micromanager1.3> -
Release 1.3  
<https://valelab.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/branches/micromanager1.2> -
Release 1.2  

## Code Timeline and Source Browser

If you just want to take a look at the source code and recent
development activity check without needing an SVN client see the
[timeline of recent code
submissions](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/trac/micromanager/timeline) and
the [source code
browser](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/trac/micromanager/browser).
