---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager File Formats
layout: page
---

Micro-Manager can save files in two formats, which referred to as
"separate image files" and "Image file stack".

<h1>

Separate image files

</h1>

Acquired images are saved to disk as separate TIFF files, each
containing a single grayscale image. The file naming convention is "img"
prefix followed by frame number, channel name and slice number
(img\_00000000t\_channel\_00z.tif). In addition, the folder will contain
a file named "metadata.txt" that contains the metadata in JSON format.

<h1>

Image file stack (in brief)

</h1>

A TIFF file or group of TIFF files that contain multiple acquired images
per a single file. These files conform to the
[OME-TIFF](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/file-formats/ome-tiff)
specification, allowing them to be easily imported into a variety of
analysis applications including anything that utilizes the [Bio-Formats
library](http://loci.wisc.edu/software/bio-formats).

Image file stacks are designed to be easily imported into ImageJ without
the need for a special reader plugin. A stack file can be dragged onto
the ImageJ toolbar and will automatically open as a hyperstack with the
same contrast settings used in Micro-Manager. Any acquisition comments
typed into the Multi-Dimensional Acquisition window or the comments tab
of the main Micro-Manager GUI can be viewed by pressing "i" with one of
these files open in ImageJ.

By default, one file is created for each XY stage position (up to a
maximum of 4 GB per file). In the tools-options menu, this can be
changed to save all XY positions in a single file. This is especially
useful for acquisitions using a large number XY positions. Since
OME-TIFFs require that an identical String of XML metadata be embedded
in each file in an acquisition, acquisitions that have a large number of
XY positions with a small amount of data at each one waste space on disk
and time by writing the same String of metadata in each file at the
acquisition’s conclusion.

Writing to these files results in faster performance than writing to
**Seperate Image Files**, in part because it minizes the number of
system calls to create new files. This can be advantageous in situations
where disk write speed is a limiting factor (i.e. writing to a server or
collecting data at a high rate).

<h1>

Programming using Image file stacks

</h1>

<h2>

Reading Images

</h2>

Existing Micro-Manager libraries can be used to easily read these files.
in order to do so a java project must use **MMCoreJ.jar** and
**MMJ\_.jar** as libraries. These JARs can be found in the
**Micro-Manager-1.4/plugins/Micro-Manager/** directory. Both file
formats sit behind a common interface for reading and writing,
[org/micromanager/api/TaggedImage.java](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/trac/micromanager/browser/mmstudio/src/org/micromanager/api/TaggedImageStorage.java).
Image file stacks are implement by
[org/micromanager/acquisition/TaggedImageStorageMultipageTiff.java](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/trac/micromanager/browser/mmstudio/src/org/micromanager/acquisition/TaggedImageStorageMultipageTiff.java).
To create an instance of this class, capable of reading an existing
Image file stack data set, use:

<span class="source"> TaggedImageStorageMultipageTiff stackReader = new
TaggedImageStorageMultipageTiff("C:\\Data\\Directory where data set is",
false, null, false, false);</span>  
Important methods for utilizing this class are:

<span class="source"> public TaggedImage getImage(int channelIndex, int
sliceIndex, int frameIndex, int positionIndex)  
public JSONObject getSummaryMetadata()  
public Set<String> imageKeys()  
public void close() </span>  
  
**imageKeys()** returns a
[java.util.Set<String>](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Set.html)
containing the image labels for each image present in the data set. An
image label is simply the image's channel, slice, frame, and position
indices separated by underscores. For example, the label for the image
of channel 1, slice 2, frame 3, position 4 would be "1\_2\_3\_4".

**close()** should be called to release the connection the files when
they are no longer needed.

A **TaggedImage** simply consists of two public fields. TaggedImage.tags
is a reference to the image metadata, stored in a
[JSONObject](http://www.json.org/). TaggedImage.pix is a pointer to the
image pixels, stored in a **byte\[\]**, **short\[\]**, or **int\[\]**
depending on the image type.

<h2>

Writing Images

</h2>

In addition to the **MMCoreJ.jar** and **MMJ\_.jar** libraries that are
required for reading Image File Stacks, writing to these files requires
4 more libraries, which can also be found in
**Micro-Manager-1.4/plugins/Micro-Manager/**: **loci-common.jar**,
**ome-xml.jar**, **scifio.jar**, and **slf4j-api-1.7.1.jar**.

Writing images into the Image File Stack format uses the same class as
reading one of these datasets, but requires a different parameters be
passed to the constructor. When writing an Image File Stack, you will
need to pass a [JSONObject](http://www.json.org/) containing a minimal
amount of summary metadata to the constructor. Code for creating this
summary metadata with the minimal amount of tags needed for saving is
listed below. In this example, a data set of 512x512 16 bit monochrome
images is created with 10 time points, 8 z slices, 2 channels, and 3
positions.

<span class="source"> summary = new JSONObject();  
summary.put("Slices", 18;  
summary.put("Positions", 1);  
summary.put("Channels", 2);  
summary.put("Frames", 10);  
summary.put("Positions",3);  
summary.put("SlicesFirst",true);  
summary.put("TimeFirst",false);  
summary.put("PixelType", "GRAY16");  
summary.put("Width",512);  
summary.put("Height",512);  
summary.put("Prefix","Put the desired base filename here");  
//these are used to create display settings  
summary.put("ChColors", new org.json.JSONArray("\[1,1\]"));  
summary.put("ChNames", new org.json.JSONArray("\["DAPI","FITC"\]"));  
summary.put("ChMins", new org.json.JSONArray("\[0,0\]"));  
summary.put("ChMaxes", new org.json.JSONArray("\[65535,65535\]"));  
</span>  

**SlicesFirst** and **TimeFirst** tell the image storage what order to
expect images to arrive in. If the full complement of expected images
does not arrive by the time the image closes, but all images up to that
point have come in the expected order, the storage will automatically
complete the current frame with blank images (this behavior is useful
for correctly opening aborted acquisitions in ImageJ). **SlicesFirst**
being true means a whole set of z slice images arrive before moving on
to another channel. **TimeFirst** being false means all positions are
collected at a given time point before moving on to the next time point,
rather than running successive time lapses at each position.

Next, create the MultipageTiffWriter. The fourth argument is a boolean
specifying whether separate **metadata.txt** files should also be
written (does not affect functionality, merely an easy extra way to view
metadata). The fifth argument is a boolean flag for whether XY positions
should be placed in separate files or combined into a single one. In
this case we don't create **metadata.txt**, and we create seperate files
for XY positions:

<span class="source"> TaggedImageStorageMultipageTiff storage = new
TaggedImageStorageMultipageTiff("C:/Data/Directory where you want to
save",true,summary,false,true);  
</span>  
Important methods for writing images are:

<span class="source"> public void putImage(TaggedImage taggedImage)  
public void finished()  
public void close()  
</span>  

**finished()** should be called after no more image are going to be
added. The storage becomes read only after this call

**close()** should be called after images are done being both read and
written.

<h1>

Image file stack specification

</h1>

Micro-Manager Image file stacks conform to both the [TIFF
Specification](http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/tiff/media/TIFF6.pdf)
and [OME TIFF
Specification](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/file-formats/ome-tiff),
contain data allowing them to be easily imported into ImageJ, store
acquisition comments and display settings, and store an index map of the
byte offsets of images within a file to allow for optimal reading
performance.

<h2>

Header

</h2>

**Bytes 0-7 (0x0-0x7)**: Standard TIFF Header

**8-11 (0x8-0xb)**: Index map offset header (54773648 = 0x0343C790)

**12-15 (0xc-0xf)**: Index map offset

**16-19 (0x10-0x13)**: Display settings offset header (483765892 =
0x1CD5AE84)

**20-23 (0x14-0x17)**: Display settings offset

**24-27 (0x18-0x1b)**: Comments offset header (99384722 = 0x05EC7D92)

**28-31 (0x1c-0x1f)**: Comments offset

**32-35 (0x20-0x23)**: Summary metadata header (2355492 = 0x0023F124)

**36-39 (0x24-0x27)**: Summary metadata length

**40- (0x28-)**: summary metadata (UTF-8 JSON)

<h2>

Image File Directories

</h2>

The first IFD starts immediately after the summary metadata. Each IFD
will contain the same set of TIFF tags, except for the first one in each
file, which contains two ImageJ metadata tags, and two copies of the
**ImageDescription** tag. One of these contains a string needed by
ImageJ to recognize these files, and the other contains OME metadata.
Although these tags appear in the first IFD, their values will not be
written until the end of the file, when it is closed. The tags are
written in the following order (non-standard TIFF tags have the values
listed after them), following the TIFF specification requirement that
they be sorted numerically:

**ImageWidth** (256 = 0x0100)

**ImageHeight** (257 = 0x0101)

**BitsPerSample** (258 = 0x0102)

**Compression** (259 = 0x0103)

**PhotometricInterpretation** (262 = 0x0106)

**ImageDescription** (270 = 0x010e) (first IFD only)--contains OME XML
metadata

a 2nd **ImageDescription** (270 = 0x010e) (first IFD only)-–contains
ImageJ file opening information

**StripOffsets** (273 = 0x0111)

**SamplesPerPixel** (277 = 0x0115)

**RowsPerStrip** (278 = 0x0116)

**StripByteCounts** (279 = 0x0117)

**XResolution** (282 = 0x011a)

**YResolution** (283 = 0x011b)

**ResolutionUnit** (296 = 0x0128)

**IJMetadataByteCounts** (first IFD only) (50838 = 0xc696)

**IJMetadata** (first IFD only) (50839 = 0xc697)

**MicroManagerMetadata** (51123 = 0xc7b3)

Immediately after these tags are written:

\-4 bytes containg the offset of the next IFD (per the TIFF
specification)

\-The pixel data

\-In RGB files only, 6 bytes containing the values of the
**BitsPerSample** tag Pixel values

\-16 bytes containing the values of the **XResolution** and
**YResolution** tags

\-The value of the **MicroManagerMetadata** tag: image metadata (UTF-8
JSON)

<h2>

End of file

</h2>

After the last IFD, the following constructs are written:

<h3>

Index map

</h3>

A listing of all the images contained in the file and their byte
offsets. This allows a specific image to be quickly accessed without
having to parse the entire file and read in image metadata. It consists
of the following:

\-A 4 byte header (3453623 = 0x0034b2b7)

\-4 bytes containing the number of entries in the index map

\-20 bytes for each entry, with 4 bytes each allocated to the image’s
channel index, slice index, frame index, position index, and byte offset
of the image’s IFD within the file

If for some reason a file fails to write out its index map (i.e. the
application crashes during file writing), opening this file will present
a dialog asking if you would like to "fix" the data set. This fixing
process consists of reading through all the IFDs present in the file to
reconstruct the index map and then writing it to the end of the file.

<h3>

ImageJ Metadata

</h3>

A subset of the metadata used by the ImageJ TIFF writer
[(ij.io.TiffEncoder.java)](http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/source/ij/io/TextEncoder.java),
which allows contrast settings and acquisition comments to propagate
into ImageJ. The position and size of this metadata is specified by the
**IJMetadataCounts** and **IJMetadata** tags in the first IFD.

<h3>

OME XML Metadata

</h3>

A string containing the OME XML metadata for this data set. This String
is referenced by the first of the two **ImageDescription** tags in the
first IFD of the file, in accordance with the [OME-TIFF
specification](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/file-formats/ome-tiff/ome-tiff-specification).
Since this String must be identical for all files in a data set, it is
not written for any file until the entire data set is closed at the
conclusion of an acquisition.

<h3>

ImageJ Image Description String

</h3>

The ImageJ image description String that allows these files to opened
correctly as hyperstacks in ImageJ. This String is referenced by the
second of the two **ImageDescription** tags in the first IFD of the
file.

<h3>

Image display settings

</h3>

Image display settings (channel contrast and colors), which are
automatically rewritten whenever these are changed in an open data set.
The first 4 bytes of this block contain the **Display Settings Header**
(347834724 = 0x14BB8964), and the next 4 contain the number of
subsequent bytes reserved for display settings. A UTF-8 JSON string
containing display settings is written.

<h3>

Acquisition and Image comments

</h3>

A String containing acquisition and Image comments. The first 4 bytes of
this block contain the **Comments Header** (84720485 = 0x050CBB65), and
the next 4 contain the length of the string to follow. The acquisition
comments are written as a UTF-8 JSON string. This string is rewritten
whenever acquisition or image comments are changed.

\--[Henry Pinkard](User:Henry_Pinkard "wikilink") 7:35, 20th March 2013
(PDT)

{% include Programming_Sidebar text="" %}
