---
autogenerated: true
title: Micro-Manager Image File Stacks
redirect_from: /wiki/Micro-Manager_Image_File_Stacks
layout: page
---

<h1>

In brief

</h1>

In brief: A TIFF file or group of TIFF files that contain multiple
acquired images per a single file. These files conform to the
[OME-TIFF](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/file-formats/ome-tiff)
specification, allowing them to be easily imported into a variety of
analysis applications including anything that utilizes the [Bio-Formats
library](http://loci.wisc.edu/software/bio-formats).

Image File Stacks are designed to be easily imported into ImageJ without
the need for a special reader plugin. A stack file can be dragged onto
the ImageJ toolbar and will automatically open as a hyperstack with the
same contrast settings used in Micro-Manager. Any acquisition comments
typed into the Multi-Dimensional Acquisition window or the comments tab
of the main Micro-Manager GUI can be viewed by pressing "i" with one of
these files open in ImageJ.

By default, one file is created for each XY stage position (up to a
maximum of 4 GB per file). In the tools-options menu, this can be
changed to save all XY positions in a single file. This is especially
useful for acquisitions using a large number XY positions. Since
OME-TIFFs require that an identical String of XML metadata be embedded
in each file in an acquisition, acquisitions that have a large number of
XY positions with a small amount of data at each one waste space on disk
and time by writing the same String of metadata in each file at the
acquisition’s conclusion.

Writing to these files results in faster performance than writing to
**Seperate Image Files**, in part because it minizes the number of
system calls to create new files. This can be advantageous in situations
where disk write speed is a limiting factor (i.e. writing to a server or
collecting data at a high rate).

<h1>

Format

</h1>

Micro-Manager Image file stacks conform to both the [TIFF
Specification](http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/tiff/TIFF6.pdf)
and [OME TIFF
Specification](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/file-formats/ome-tiff),
contain data allowing them to be easily imported into ImageJ, store
acquisition comments and display settings, and store an index map of the
byte offsets of images within a file to allow for optimal reading
performance.

<h2>

Header

</h2>

**Bytes 0-7**: Standard TIFF Header

**8-11**: Index map offset header (54773648)

**12-15**: Index map offset

**16-19**: Display settings offset header (483765892)

**20-23**: Display settings offset

**24-27**: Comments offset header (99384722)

**28-31**: Comments offset

**32-35**: Summary metadata header (2355492)

**36-39**: Summary metadata length

**40-start of first IFD**: 1 byte for each character of summary metadata

<h2>

Image File Directories

</h2>

Each IFD will contain the same set of TIFF tags, except for the first
one in each file, which contains two ImageJ metadata tags, and two
copies of the **ImageDescription** tag. One of these contains a string
needed by ImageJ to recognize these files, and the other contains OME
metadata. Although these tags appear in the first IFD, their values will
not be written until the end of the file, when it is closed. The tags
are written in the following order (non-standard TIFF tags have the
values listed after them):

**ImageWidth**

**ImageHeight**

**BitsPerSample**

**Compression**

**PhotometricInterpretation**

**ImageDescription** (first IFD only)--contains OME XML metadata

a 2nd **ImageDescription** (first IFD only)-–contains ImageJ file
opening information

**StripOffsets**

**SamplesPerPixel**

**RowsPerStrip**

**StripByteCounts**

**XResolution**

**YResolution**

**ResolutionUnit**

**IJMetadataByteCounts** (first IFD only) (50838)

**IJMetadata** (first IFD only) (50839)

**MicroManagerMetadata** (51123)

Immediately after these tags are written:

-4 bytes containg the offset of the next IFD (per the TIFF
specification)

-In RGB files only, 6 bytes containing the values of the
**BitsPerSample** tag Pixel values

-16 bytes containing the values of the **XResolution** and
**YResolution** tags

-The value of the **MicroManagerMetadata** tag: 1 byte for each
character of image metadata converted to a String

<h2>

End of file

</h2>

After the last IFD, the following constructs are written:

<h3>

Index map

</h3>

A listing of all the images contained in the file and their byte
offsets. This allows a specific image to be quickly accessed without
having to parse the entire file and read in image metadata. It consists
of the following:

-A 4 byte header (3453623)

-4 bytes containing the number of entries in the index map

-20 bytes for each entry, with 4 bytes each allocated to the image’s
channel index, slice index, frame index, position index, and byte offset
of the image’s IFD within the file

<h3>

ImageJ Metadata

</h3>

A subset of the metadata used by the ImageJ TIFF writer
[(ij.io.TiffEncoder.java)](http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/source/ij/io/TextEncoder.java),
which allows contrast settings and acquisition comments to propagate
into ImageJ. The position and size of this metadata is specified by the
**IJMetadataCounts** and **IJMetadata** tags in the first IFD.

<h3>

OME XML Metadata

</h3>

A string containing the OME XML metadata for this data set. This String
is referenced by the first of the two **ImageDescription** tags in the
first IFD of the file, in accordance with the [OME-TIFF
specification](http://www.openmicroscopy.org/site/support/file-formats/ome-tiff/ome-tiff-specification).
Since this String must be identical for all files in a data set, it is
not written for any file until the entire data set is closed at the
conclusion of an acquisition.

<h3>

ImageJ Image Description String

</h3>

The ImageJ image description String that allows these files to opened
correctly as hyperstacks in ImageJ. This String is referenced by the
second of the two **ImageDescription** tags in the first IFD of the
file.

<h3>

Image display settings

</h3>

Image display settings (channel contrast and colors), which are
automatically rewritten whenever these are changed in an open data set.
The first 4 bytes of this block contain the **Display Settings Header**
(347834724), and the next 4 contain the number of subsequent bytes
reserved for display settings. A String containing display settings
(which are normally stored in a
[JSONObject](http://www.json.org/javadoc/org/json/JSONObject.html)) is
written one byte per character.

<h3>

Acquisition and Image comments

</h3>

A String containing acquisition and Image comments. The first 4 bytes of
this block contain the **Comments Header** (84720485), and the next 4
contain the length of String version of the
[JSONObject](http://www.json.org/javadoc/org/json/JSONObject.html) used
to store acquisition comments. This String is rewritten whenever
acquisition or image comments are changed.

--[Henry Pinkard](/users/Henry_Pinkard "wikilink") 7:35, 20th March 2013
(PDT)
