---
autogenerated: true
title: MultiChannelShading
redirect_from: /wiki/MultiChannelShading
layout: page
---

The MultiChannelShading allows independent shading correction
(flat-fielding) of multiple channels. Note that this plugin has been
replaced by the Flat-Fiedl Correction plugin as of Micro-Manager version
1.4.20.2014118. The plugin dialog looks like this:

![](media/MCS_screenshot.jpg "MCS_screenshot.jpg")

To use it, you first must select the group in which the channels you
will be applying shading corrections to are defined.

Next, a dark image is specified. This image will be subtracted from all
flat-fielded channels.

Third, flat-field images for each channel must be specified. Only images
acquired with one of the channels specified here will be flat-fielded.
Images that do not correspond to a selected channel will not be
background subtracted or flat-fielded. You pick the channel name from
the drop down menu and specify a flat field image by either entering its
full path or clicking on the "..." button to select the image from a
browser. If you want background subtraction but no flat-fielding, select
the channel but do not select a corresponding flat-field image here. The
"Normalize?" check box controls whether the image will be normalized so
that its mean equals one before flat-fielding. Almost always you will
want to check this box. If the normalize box is unchecked, the flatfield
image will be scaled by the maximum value possible for the image as
determined by its bitdepth. This is equivalent to dividing the acquired
image by the flat-fielded image and then scaling the result so that 0
maps to 0 and 1 maps to 2^(image bitdepth) -1. This can be useful in
certain specialized applications, such as acquiring 3-color images using
a gray-scale camera and red, green, and blue LEDs.

Finally, the bottom left check-box allows you to enable or disable
flat-fielding. If it is unchecked, no background subtraction or
flat-fielding will be performed. It is often useful to disable
flat-fielding in live mode so that the live image doesn't lag.

