_pages/NikonTi2.md, before:

---
autogenerated: true
title: NikonTi2
redirect_from: /wiki/NikonTi2
layout: page
---

## Nikon Ti motorized microscope

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nikon Ti2 motorized microscopes

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Mark Tsuchida, Open Imaging, Inc.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Freeware. Source code cannot be made available, sorry.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows 32-bit and 64-bit

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Supported since the 20180220 nightly builds (1.4 and 2.0beta).

### Installation

First, install Nikon's [Ti2
Control](http://nikon.com/products/microscope-solutions/support/download/software/biological/index.htm)
software. Make sure it can control your microscope.

If you are running Micro-Manager release 2.0.0 or a 2.0 series nightly
build dated 2022-03-02 or earlier, or any MM 1.4 (release or nightly),
you probably need Ti2 Control 1.2.0.

If you are running anything newer, please try the latest Ti2 Control
2.x first.

Next, copy the file `Ti2_Mic_Driver.dll` into the Micro-Manager folder.
The file is located at `C:\Program Files\Nikon\Ti2-SDK\bin`.

NikonTi2 should then appear in the Hardware Configuration Wizard.

Commit message:

Update Nikon Ti & Ti2 download links

_pages/NikonTi2.md, after:

---
autogenerated: true
title: NikonTi2
redirect_from: /wiki/NikonTi2
layout: page
---

## Nikon Ti motorized microscope

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nikon Ti2 motorized microscopes

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Mark Tsuchida, Open Imaging, Inc.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Freeware. Source code cannot be made available, sorry.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows 32-bit and 64-bit

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Supported since the 20180220 nightly builds (1.4 and 2.0beta).

### Installation

First, install Nikon's **Ti2 Control** Windows software from the [Nikon
Healthcare's Software Developer Toolkit
site](https://nisdk.recollective.com/microscopes) (registration required).
Make sure it can control your microscope.

If you are running Micro-Manager release 2.0.0 or a 2.0 series nightly
build dated 2022-03-02 or earlier, or any MM 1.4 (release or nightly),
you probably need Ti2 Control 1.2.0.

If you are running anything newer, please try the latest Ti2 Control
2.x first.

Next, copy the file `Ti2_Mic_Driver.dll` into the Micro-Manager folder.
The file is located at `C:\Program Files\Nikon\Ti2-SDK\bin`.

NikonTi2 should then appear in the Hardware Configuration Wizard.
