---
autogenerated: true
title: NikonTi2
redirect_from: /wiki/NikonTi2
layout: page
---

## Nikon Ti motorized microscope

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nikon Ti2 motorized microscopes

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Mark Tsuchida, Open Imaging, Inc.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Freeware. Source code cannot be made available, sorry.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Supported since the 20180220 nightly builds (1.4 and 2.0beta).

### Installation

1. Download and install Nikon's **Ti2 Control** Windows software from the [Nikon
Healthcare's Software Developer Toolkit
site](https://nisdk.recollective.com/microscopes) (registration required).
   - If you are running Micro-Manager release 2.0.0 or a 2.0 series nightly
build dated 2022-03-02 or earlier, or any MM 1.4 (release or nightly),
you probably need Ti2 Control 1.2.0.
   - If you are running anything newer, please try the latest Ti2 Control
2.x first.
2. Copy the file `C:\Program Files\Nikon\Ti2-SDK\bin\Ti2_Mic_Driver.dll` into the Micro-Manager folder.
3. The NikonTi2 should then appear as an available device in the Hardware Configuration Wizard.

### Troubleshooting

- Make sure you power on the microscope stand _before_ you power on the
  controller box.
- If `NikonTi2` only shows as `NikonTi2 (unavailable)` in the config wizard, ensure that you have copied the `Ti2_Mic_Driver.dll` into the same directory as the `mmgr_dal_NikonTi2.dll` library and have *not* renamed `Ti2_Mic_Driver.dll` (and that it is from the currently installed version of the Nikon software).
- If the `NikonTi2` folder is available in the config wizard, but you only see the `*Ti2-Simulator` device available:
   - Make sure that your microscope is powered on and connected to the computer (you may have to restart micro-manager if you powered it on after starting micro-manager).
   - Make sure the SDK can control your microscope *without* going through micro-manager, for example by running `C:\Program Files\Nikon\Ti2-SDK\bin\Ti2Sample.exe` and confirming that your microscope responds to button presses.
   - If all goes well, you should see one or more devices in addition to the Ti2-Simulator, for example a Ti2-Eclipse microscope may appear as `*Ti2-E__0: Nikon Ti2 microscope`.

### D-LEDI fluorescence illuminator

(Not to be confused with the older C-LEDFI, called EpiLED in Micro-Manager.)

A D-LEDI can be controlled (since nightly build 2025-12-23). It must be plugged
into the Ti2-E controller (TI2-CTRE). A direct USB cable from the D-LEDI to the
computer will _not_ work.

Make sure to power on the D-LEDI _before_ you power on the Ti2-E controller;
otherwise the device will not be recognized.

The D-LEDI shows up as "DLED" in Micro-Manager.

Micro-Manager always puts the D-LEDI into the so-called "async" mode, which
means that the on/off of the 4 wavelength channels are controlled
independently.

It is recommended not to use the remote control pad while contrlling from
Micro-Manager. Micro-Manager does not have a way to immediately know of changes
made on the control pad. (Currently Micro-Manager will overwrite changes made
on the control pad on the next command, but this behavior may change in the
future.)

External trigger mode can be turned on from Micro-Manager. When in trigger
mode, commands that turn on/off the LEDs will not work (they will return an
error). Intensity control remains available.

The pinout for the D-Sub 15 pin trigger (TTL) connector is in the D-LEDI
manual:

- Pins 1-4 (input): turn LEDs 1-4 on (H) or off (L).

- Pin 5 (input): turn on all LEDs.

- Pins 6, 7: ground.

- Pins 8-10: do not connect.

- Pins 11-14 (output): reports on (H) or off (L) for LEDs 1.4.

- Pin 15 (output): H if any LED is on; L if all are off.
