---
autogenerated: true
title: NIMultiAnalog
redirect_from: /wiki/NIMultiAnalog
layout: page
---

## Adapter for National Instruments DAQ with analog outputs

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Controls NI I/O boards through NI-DAQmx interface. Supports simultaneous
hardware sequencing using multiple analog output ports.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Mark Tsuchida, Open Imaging, Inc.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows only

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Superseded by [NIDAQ](NIDAQ).  

This device adapter is intended for use with National Instruments DAQ
boards/boxes that have multiple analog output ports (e.g. Analog Output
series PCI boards such as PCI-6723). It does not (so far) support
digital outputs, but does support hardware triggering (with a single
trigger input line driving all, or some, or the outputs; each output may
have different sequence lengths so long as the least common multiple is
not too big).

The hardware triggering support is flexible enough that you can use the
same DAQ to control a piezo Z stage, the illumination channel (possibly
using analog output ports as TTL outputs, with the DATTLStateDevice
available in [Utilities](Utilities)), and illumination
intensities simultaneously. In such a configuration, both the Z stage
and the illumination channel can be sequenced by hardware triggering at
the same time in an MDA.

To set up triggered acquisition with the NIDAQ card, you first load the
analog outs you with to control light sources with. You then set up a DA
TTL State Device to allow control of these analog outs from a single
state setting, and then set up a State Device Shutter to control the DA
TTL state device.

