---
autogenerated: true
title: Overview of the documentation
redirect_from: /wiki/Overview_of_the_documentation
layout: page
section: Learn:Version 1.4
---

## The following are the three main guides to fully explore Micro-Manager:


 **[User Guide:](Micro-Manager_User's_Guide "wikilink")**
Here you will find how to navigate through the software's menus, dialogs
and also perform basic instrument control and acquisition. The guide
assumes you are running the software either in the "demo" mode (default
installation), or that you are working with a previously configured
hardware setup.

**[Configuration Guide:](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide "wikilink")**
In order to get Micro-Manager to work with your particular hardware
setup, this guide will cover in detail how Micro-Manager uses
configuration files in textual, human-readable form to load appropriate
device drivers and to adapt user interface to particular properties of
your hardware setup. You will also see details on how to write new
configuration files, edit existing files, and troubleshoot
configuration-related run-time errors.

**[Programming Guide:](Micro-Manager_Programming_Guide "wikilink")**
This guide describes how to use the Micro-Manager programmatic interface
(API) and demonstrates how to control the microscope setup from Java/C++
program or from other scripting environments. Micro-Manager is designed
to strictly separate the user interface from the functional core module.
That means that you can use its comprehensive set of microscope control
and image acquisition commands from any Java program or Java-enabled
scripting environment, such as Matlab. The entire API is listed in the
[API
Reference](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc/mmcorej/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)
in auto-generated Doxygen format. Device adapter authors will be
interested in the [Device-API
reference](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc/MMDevice/html/class_m_m_1_1_device.html).

