---
autogenerated: true
title: Overview of the documentation-new
redirect_from: /wiki/Overview_of_the_documentation-new
layout: page
---

For a tutorial introduction for using Micro-Manager software you've just
downloaded, or to get an overview of its basic capabilities, the [User's
Guide](Micro-Manager_User's_Guide "wikilink") is the best starting
point. Here you'll find out how to navigate through the application's
menus and dialogs and how to perform basic instrument control and
acquisition. The [User's Guide](Micro-Manager_User's_Guide "wikilink")
assumes you are running the software either in the "demo" mode
(installation default), or that you are working with a previously
configured hardware setup.

Configuring Micro-Manager software to work with your particular hardware
setup is a separate topic, covered in detail in the [Configuration
Guide](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide "wikilink"). Micro-Manager uses
configuration files in textual, human-readable form to load appropriate
device drivers and to adapt user interface to particular properties of
your hardware setup. The [Configuration
Guide](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide "wikilink") explains how to
write new configuration files, how to edit existing ones, and how to
troubleshoot configuration-related run-time errors.

Micro-Manager software is designed to strictly separate the user
interface from the functional core module. That means that you can use
its comprehensive set of microscope control and image acquisition
commands from any Java program or Java-enabled scripting environment,
such as Matlab. In other words, you can bypass Micro-Manager's default,
user interface and create your own, either in C++ or Java, or just write
scripts in Matlab, or some other compatible environment. The
[Programming Guide](Micro-Manager_Programming_Guide "wikilink")
describes how to use the Micro-Manager programmatic interface (API) and
demonstrates how to control the microscope setup from Java/C++ program
or from the scripting environment. The entire API is listed in the [API
Reference](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/~arthur/mm_doc/html/class_c_m_m_core.html)
in auto-generated Doxygen format. Device adapter authors will be
intersted in the [Device-API
reference](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/~arthur/mm_doc/html/class_c_device_base.html).

