---
autogenerated: true
title: Oxxius combiner
layout: page
---

## Oxxius combiner

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Interface to any Oxxius combiner. Provides an access to the individual
laser sources, as well as to shutters or various accessories and
modules.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Tristan Martinez

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

All (requires a USB port or access to an Ethernet network)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Oxxius L4Cc and L6Cc models](http://www.oxxius.com/Wavelength-Combiner)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Since Version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.4.23

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

None

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Foreword: This Device Adapter relates to laser combiners and to BTC-AOM
controllers. For stand-alone LaserBoxx sources, refer to the Device
Adapter named [Oxxius](Oxxius "wikilink").

## Installation

-   Using the USB port

The USB port needs to be turned into a virtual serial port. To proceed,
connect to the combiner (using Oxxius' GUI for example), enter the
command "CDC 1", then reboot the combiner. Take note of the COM port
assigned to your combiner, then use the following parameters in the
Hardware Configuration Wizard:

```
   Answer Timeout: 500
   Baudrate: 115200 (this value is seemingly ignored anyway)
   DataBits: 8
   DelayBetweenCharsMs: 0
   FastUSB to Serial: Disable
   Handshaking: Off
   Parity: None
   StopBits: 1
   Verbose: 1
```

-   Using the Ethernet port

If needed, use the command "?EIP" to query the IP address of the
combiner. Enter it in the connection settings.

## Combiner Hub

This Hub provides an access to the laser sources, accessories and
various components connected to (or mounted in) the combiner. The hub's
"chidren" are detailed in the following paragraphs.

Hub properties:

```
   Serial number (read only)
   Interlock status: "Open" or "Closed"  (read only)
   Emission key status: "Armed" or "Disarmed" (read only)
```

## LaserBoxx source

Provides an interface to various LaserBoxx laser sources. While some
models are physically linked to either an AOM or an "MPA" attenuator,
this Device Adapter provides a uniform interface in all these
situations.

Available properties (model-dependant):

```
   State (read only)
   Alarm (read only)
   Control mode: "ACC" or "APC" (read and write)
   Analog modulation selection: "ON" or "OFF" (read and write)
   Digital modulation selection: "ON" or "OFF" (read and write)
   Current set point, as a percentage of the nominal current (read and write)
   Power set point, as a percentage of the nominal power (read and write)
   Emission status: "ON" or "OFF" (read and write)
```

Inheritance: CShutterBase.

## Shutter

To control an electromechanical shutter. Available property:

```
   State: "Open" or "Closed" (read and write)
```

Inheritance: CShutterBase.

## M-Dual

This Device Adapter relates to the "MDL-MDUAL" extension, which splits
the laser beam over two output channels, according to a configurable
split ratio. Available property:

```
   Split ratio: percentage of the total power directed to the first channel(read and write)
```

Inheritance: CGenericBase.

## Flip Mirror

This Device Adapter relates to the "MDL-FLPM" extension, which directs
the laser beam over one of two distinct channels. Available property:

```
   Switch position: "0" for channel 1, "1" for channel 2(read and write)
```

Inheritance: CGenericBase.

## Known limitations

-   Requires firmware version 1.0.17 or higher. Use the command "?SV" to
    query the version of your combiner.
-   Cobolt laser sources are not yet supported.

## Support

Contact the author at "support at oxxius.com".

