---
autogenerated: true
title: Personal computer setup
redirect_from: /wiki/Personal_computer_setup
layout: page
---

## Disable Power Saving

To comply with environmental regulations, PCs are sold with power saving
features enabled by default. One must disable these features for
reliable hardware control.

### Power Options

Windows suspends USB and PCI Express devices by default.

Open the `Power Options` window to see the available `Power Plans`. You
can do this opening the start menu, typing "power options" in the
`Search programs and files` text box, and clicking on the "Power
Options" search result.

You will see 3 plans listed:

-   Balanced (recommended)
-   Power saver
-   High performance

{% include notice icon="info" content="The <code>High performance</code> plan actually does not disable all power saving features." %}

Click on "Create a Power Plan", select the "High performance" plan as
the one closest to your new plan and call it something like "My high
performance with all power saving disabled.". Strictly speaking,
creating a new plan name is not necessary as one can modify the High
performance plan, but creating the new name makes it explicit to anyone
else checking your computer that the additional power saving features
have intentionally been disabled.

Click on `Change advanced power settings` in the second step of creating
the new plan, to open the `Advanted settings` window. The important
settings to change are:

| Setting                                                 | Value    |
|---------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| Hard Disks &gt; Turn off hard disk after                | Never \* |
| Sleep &gt; Sleep after                                  | Never \* |
| USB Settings &gt; USB selective suspend setting         | Disabled |
| PCI Express &gt; Link State Power Management            | Off      |
| Processor power management &gt; Minimum processor state | 100%     |
| \* Type the number "0" and hit enter for "Never")       |          |

Some IT departments (like the University of Michigan) override the
Windows Power Plan settings when the computer starts, so you may want to
verify that these `Advanced settings` persist after you reboot your PC,
or when you login as another user (if multiple users are setup on your
computer). The University of Michigan corrected the power saving
behavior by logging in to the PC's administrator account and applying
above changes there so that the login script copies over the changed
settings.

### BIOS

PCI Express C-states power saving settings need to be disabled in the
BIOS, in addition to being disabled in Windows:

| Name | Setting                                                                                     |
|------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Dell | Performance &gt; C States Control (disable it)                                              |
| HP   | Power &gt; OS Power Management &gt; Idle Power Savings (change from "Extended" to "Normal") |

## USB connection placement

### High data bandwidth

High bandwidth USB devices using such as cameras, XY stages, and
microscopes must not share their USB bus with other such high bandwidth
devices. When these devices send data simultaneously and overflow the
USB bus, this in turn causes the imaging software to freeze or crash.
Ideally, each high bandwidth device would be plugged into the computer
USB slots in such a way as to be on its own USB bus; in less ideal
circumstances the device would share a bus with a low-bandwidth device
(i.e. a device known not to require much communication).

You need to use a utility like
[UVCview](http://www.ftdichip.com/Resources/Utilities/Usbview.zip) to
inspect the USB bus. The physical layout of computer USB ports is often
misleading, as devices connected to the front and back USB slots of the
computer can actually be on the same USB bus. Using UVCview, try
different USB slots on the computer until the high bandwidth device is
on its own USB bus.

### High current draw

Another problem with some USB devices is power draw exceeding the
current that the USB bus can provide. USB power draw problems manifest
or be detected in several ways:

1.  The list of devices in UVCview will repeatedly refresh. The refresh
    happens because devices are intermittently dropping out of the USB
    bus for short periods of time.
2.  The device won't be recognized until other devices are removed from
    its USB bus, or unless it is plugged in with using a powered USB
    hub.
3.  Even though the device is recognized in the Device Manager, one
    cannot communicate with it in the imaging software.

The fix for power draw, as with high-bandwidth devices, is putting the
device on its own USB bus. If there is no available USB bus on the
computer, try a PCI/e USB daughter card (make sure to power the card if
it has a connector) or use a powered external USB hub.

## Install device libraries

Some devices require library (.dll) files to communicate, and their
DeviceAdapters will show "(unavailable)" in the Hardware Configuration
Wizard without them. Sometimes these library files:

1.  Are Included with, and installed by, Micro-Manager itself so that
    the device works out of the box. These are called **bundled
    libraries**.
2.  Can be installed as a **system-wide dependency**.
3.  Are supplied with no installer (often in a .zip file) and need to be
    either copied to the Micro-Manager directory to be available locally
    to that version of MM, or added to the Windows PATH to be available
    system-wide.

### Copy device libraries to main MM folder

This is the most common method of installing library files for one
Micro-Manager folder. After the library files are copied to the
Micro-Manager folder, starting MM will find them.

### Add device libraries to Windows PATH

Sometimes one has to install nightly builds for troubleshooting problems
and it's tedious to copy the required library files each time.

One can add the folder containing device library files to the Windows
`PATH` variable, by:

-   Right-click the My Computer icon on the desktop or start menu
-   Click `Properties` and on the `Advanced` tab choose `Environment`
    variables.
-   On the `System Variables` list, find "Path" or "PATH" and click
    edit. DO NOT DELETE ANYTHING. Just add `;C:\Path\to\your\library\`
    on the end of the line on the edit window. The leading semi-colon
    (;) is necessary or you might break something on your windows
    installation.
-   If your OS is older than Windows Vista, restart your computer for
    the new `PATH` to take effect.

