---
autogenerated: true
title: Photon Transfer Curve Assistant
layout: page
---

## Photon Transfer Curve Assistant

Utility to help establish camera and illumination properties.

This plugin will take series of images with varying exposure times, and
present you with the mean and standard deviation image obtained at each
exposure.

![](media/_PTCTools.png "media/_PTCTools.png")

Provide even, continuous illumination of your camera. Establish the
lowest exposure time possible with your camera, and establish the
exposure time that just leads to saturation of your image (which will
depend on illumination intensity). Decide how many exposures (i.e.,
different exposure times) you would like to obtain, and how many frames
per exposure.

The plugin will then ask you to close the shutter, or prevent light of
reaching the sensor in any other way possible so that it can obtain a
true dark image.

![](media/_PTCToolsDark.png "media/_PTCToolsDark.png")

After the plugin collected dark images, it will ask you to switch the
light back on.

![](media/_PTCToolsLight.png "media/_PTCToolsLight.png")

After all images are collected (which may take a while), an ImageJ stack
with two channels, one the mean, the other channel the std.dev. at each
exposure, as well as a results table that lists the exposure time, the
mean (calculated from the means of the n images taken at the given
exposure) and the standard deviation at each exposure (calculated from
the n means) will be shown. The standard deviation will be very low
(&lt; 1) if you have a stable light source, higher values indicate
significant fluctuations, which will make the results harder to
interpret.

The resulting stack with means and std. dev. can be used to calculate
per pixel camera characteristics. You can experiment with the Demo
Camera. Set the Mode property to Noise, and use the Photon Conversion
Factor, Photon Flux and Readnoise properties to change the illumination
intensity and gain and readnoise of your virtual camera.

{% include Listserv_Search text="Photon Transfer Curve Assistant" %}

{% include Documentation_Sidebar text="" %}
