---
autogenerated: true
title: PI GCS
layout: page
---

## PI GCS Driver for High-Speed Piezo Z Motion

<table>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Interfaces with [Physik Instrumente (PI)](http://www.pi.ws) GCS Piezo
Controllers for fast Z motion stages

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Steffen Rau (PI) (based on code by Nico Stuurman and Nenad Amodaj)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

All platforms (uses serial interface)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Stage

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

None

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Micro-Manager version:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

\>=1.2.7

</td>

</tr>

</table>

'' **Please Note**: This adapter is limited to Z Stages and serial
communication. Please see [PI\_GCS\_2](PI_GCS_2 "wikilink") for an
updated driver for X/Y and Z stages with more features. Further
development will focus on the [PI\_GCS\_2](PI_GCS_2 "wikilink") adapter
only (Steffen Rau, PI)''

PI GCS driver is designed for high speed piezo Z motion and is
compatible with all current PI piezo controllers. PI piezo controllers
are also compatible with analog input (via analog DAC board driver in
uManager). Piezo-Z motion is used for faster step times than motor-Z -
typically about 10X faster.

The adapter has been tested with E-816-based controllers (E-665, E-621,
E-625), as well as with the E-753, E-712 and C-848 but should work also
with all PI controllers that support the GCS (General Command Set) and
can be connected via a serial interface (C-880, C-702, ...).

All communications to devices take place through serial ports. For some
controllers you may need to set the serial port to 'hardware
handshaking'. The baudrate of the controller can be changed (defaults to
115.200 baud). Use the provided software from PI or a terminal program
to connect with the controller and change the default baudrate. For
E-816 based controllers this can be done with the "BDR" command:

`BDR 57.6`  
`BDR?`  
`WPA 100`  
`RST`

For controllers supporting GCS2 (E-753, E-712) use "IFS":

`IFS 100 RSBAUD 57600`  
`IFS?`  
`RBT`

To use the PI Adapter, select "PI\_GCS" as library and "PIZStage" as
adapter in the Hardware Configuration Wizard. The PIZStage has two
properties:

  - **Axis** is the axis to be controlled by Micro-Manager. For E-816
    based controllers this is "A", for E-753 use "1" (see the User
    Manual of your controller for available axes and their identifiers)
  - **Port** is the serial port to be used, which needs to be configured
    earlier in the Hardware Configuration Wizard. The default values are
    OK for PI controllers (AnswerTimeout = 500, DelayBetweenCharsMs = 0,
    StopBits = 1).

The PIZstage can be synchronized with image acquisiton, which is only
neccassary for motorized stages. There is no "Homing" for ZStages in
micro-manager (yet). So if you need to initialize the stage with "Auto
Zero" or by moving to a reference, you need to start the provided PI
software or a terminal application to do this once after power on. (This
does not affect E-816 based controllers (E-665, E-621, E-625) which do
not need to be referenced)

\--[Steffen](User:Steffen "wikilink") 15 January 2009

This driver does not work with the E-750. The E-750 uses a special
binary protocol over the serial line.

\--[Karl Bellve, Biomedical Imaging Group, University of
Massachusetts](User:Kdb "wikilink") 16:48, 1 July 2009 (UTC)

Successfully configured with a C-867 controller and a PILine Piezomotor.

\--[Julou](User:Julou "wikilink") 16:33, 30 November 2010 (UTC)

{% include Devices_Sidebar text="" %}
