---
autogenerated: true
title: Policies for inclusion of source code
redirect_from: /wiki/Policies_for_inclusion_of_source_code
layout: page
section: Extend:Source code
---

We encourage everyone who has written a device adapter module to send
their code to us for inclusion in the Micro-Manager source code
repository.

As of April 2021, the procedure for the 1.4 (legacy) and 2.0 (current)
version is different. Note that these two versions will no longer be
kept in sync automatically. For both versions, include any libraries or
other materials that will be needed to build the code (or provide
links). Please also include a compatible license for your software (most
of the code uses either a BSD or LGPL license, it is not possible for us
to include GPL code).

## For 1.4

Please email the source code to <info@micro-manager.org>. After addition
of your code to our repository, we will send you a username and password
that you can use for future changes to the code (using a
[subversion](http://subversion.tigris.org/) client).

## For 2.0

1.  Create a “fork” of the
    [“mmCoreAndDevices”](https://github.com/micro-manager/mmCoreAndDevices)
    repository on your own GitHub account and clone your newly forked
    repository to your computer.
2.  Create a branch to work on.
3.  Commit your changes and push them to your github account.
4.  Go to the “Pull Request” section of the “Micro-Manager”
    “mmCoreAndDevices” Github page and open a new pull request
    describing the changes you would like to make.
5.  For more information about pull requests see the [GitHub
    Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)

## Provide end-user documentation on this website

Also, please do request an account for this website (click on the Log In
button), and create a page in the [Device
Support](Device_Support) section. Use this page to provide
information for users of your equipment to configure and use your device
in Micro-Manager (i.e., please do not use this for marketing purposes).

## Closed Source device adapters

In the past, several closed-source device adapters have been included in
µManager. Open Imaging's current policy is to only accept new device
adapters that are open source (usually BSD, LGPL, or Apache). Third
parties can distribute their device adapters as binaries, although this
is not encouraged because it complicates installation by the user and
causes version compatibility issues. Existing closed-source device
adapters in the official release will generally be maintained.
