---
autogenerated: true
title: Policies for inclusion of source code
layout: page
---

We encourage everyone who has written a device adapter module to send
their code to us for inclusion in the [Micro-Manager source code
repository](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/svn/micromanager2/trunk/). Please
email the source code to <info@micro-manager.org>. Also do include any
libraries or other materials that we will need to build the code (or
provide links). Please also include a compatible license for your
software (most of the code uses either a BSD or LGPL license, it is not
possible for us to include GPL code).

After addition of your code to our repository, we will send you a
username and password that you can use for future changes to the code
(using a [subversion](http://subversion.tigris.org/) client).

Also, please do request an account for this website (click on the Log In
button), and create a page in the [Device
Support](Device_Support "wikilink") section. Use this page to provide
information for users of your equipment to configure and use your device
in Micro-Manager (i.e., please do not use this for marketing purposes).

In the past, several closed-source device adapters have been included in
ÂµManager. Open Imaging's current policy is to only accept new device
adapters that are open source (usually BSD, LGPL, or Apache). Third
parties can distribute their device adapters as binaries, although this
is not encouraged because it complicates installation by the user and
causes version compatibility issues. Existing closed-source device
adapters in the official release will generally be maintained.

{% include Programming_Sidebar text="" %}
