---
autogenerated: true
title: PriorPureFocus
redirect_from: /wiki/PriorPureFoucs
layout: page
---

<table>
<tr>
<td><p>Summary:</p></td>
<td><p>Adapter for the <a href="https://www.prior.com/product/purefocus850-laser-autofocus-system">Prior PureFocus 850 laser autofocus device</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Author:</p></td>
<td><p>Nico Stuurman</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>License:</p></td>
<td><p>BSD</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Platforms:</p></td>
<td><p>Linux, Mac, and Windows</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Since:</p></td>
<td><p>2025-07-25</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Automated Serial Port Setup:</p></td>
<td><p>No</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Peripheral device discovery:</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>Serial port baud rate:</p></td>
<td><p>460800</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p>This page:</p></td>
<td><p>Nico Stuurman</p></td>
</tr>
</table>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<p>This Micro-Manager device adapter does not replace the software provided by Prior.  First configure the device using the Prior software.  One you have done so, this adapter lets you lock/unlock the autofocus, set the offset lens position, select the objective (i.e. a set of presets saved in the controller using the Prior software) and do a few more useful things. </p>

<p>This device adapter exposes 3 devices: the Hub, autofocus and offset device.  First select the hub in the hardware configuration wizard.  This lets you select the serial port.  It also offers to set the piezo drive (if you have a piezo drive connected to your PureFocus) to the middle of its range on Startup (which is a good thing to do).  </p>

<p>The Autofocus device will appear as an autofocus device in the autofocus device tool in the Micro-Manager main window.  You can also "lock" the device using the "Servo" property.  The properties "InFocus" and "SampleInRange" will be continuously updated.  </p>

<p>The OPffset device will appear as any other (Z) drive.  Please note that the units are incorrect.  It says micro-meters, but in fact this is a relative number that depends on your objective and several other factors. </p>
