---
autogenerated: true
title: PVCAM
layout: page
---

# Photometrics PVCAM Device Adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Interfaces with Roper, Photometrics (this adapter used to work with
Princeton Instruments cameras, however, now please use the Princeton
Instruments adapter)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Authors:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nenad Amodaj, with contributions from Nico Stuurman (Mac adaptation) and
Ji Yu (expose more PVCAM properties), Oleksiy Danikhnov and Arthur
Edelstein (reliability in streaming mode).

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows and Mac OS X (linux possible but not tested), for Windows 7 see
issue below

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

PVCAM compatible cameras

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[MMConfig_pvcam_simple.cfg](media/MMConfig_pvcam_simple.cfg "wikilink")

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Driver Needed:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Roper/Photometrics
PVCAM](http://www.photomet.com/support/downloads/index.php)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Installation

Make sure you have the latest version of the Photometrics [PVCAM
Driver](https://www.photometrics.com/support/software/) supporting your
camera. You might need to update PVCAM after you upgrade Micro-Manager
(if you get an error, of PVCAM becomes "unavailable").

### Photometrics

This adapter should work with Photometrics PVCAM compatible cameras that
work with recent PVCAM versions (If you have an older Photometrics
camera that does not work with a recent PVCAM version, please try the
Princeton Instruments adapter). To use it, you will need to have the
([PVCAM
software](http://www.photometrics.com/support/downloads/index.php))
installed and working. At the very least, the pvcam test application
(included with PVCAM) should give you an image, and preferably RSImage
works with your camera (although we have seen cases where Micro-Manager
works with a PVCAM camera whereas RSImage does not). We tested it with
an old MicroMax, a newer Firewire CoolSnap, Cascade II, and Evolve
cameras on Windows and a Firewire Coolsnap ES, EZ, and HQ2 on Intel Mac.
Thanks to Ji Yu, most available camera properties are exposed.

The Photometrics website has a
[video](http://www.photometrics.com/resources/videos/photometrics-micro-manager)
showing how to configure Micro-Manager for use with a Photometrics
camera.

## Firewire issues

From the Photometrics website:

> In recent updates, Microsoft released two hotfixes which updated their
> FireWire stack file. However, these updates cause performance drops in
> the functionality of Texas Instruments (TI) FireWire Controllers which
> ship with Photometrics cameras. These performance drops
>
> `manifest with the following symptoms:`
>
> -   Image Tearing
> -   Interference Lines
> -   Black Images
> -   Reduced Frames-per-second
>
> Installing the Thesycon 1394 stack fixes these problems by replacing
> the default Microsoft stack. This remedies any problems caused by the
> updates. The Thesycon FireWire stack has been thoroughly tested and
> does not cause any other conflicts or problems with any devices.

The Thesycon stack installer can be downloaded
[here](http://www.photomet.com/support/downloads/index.php).

## Windows 7 issue

Paul Forscher reported that Micro-Manager does not find any PVCAM
cameras under Windows 7. The problem is that Micro-Manager can not find
the file 'PVCAM.ini'. To fix this, run RSConfig.exe from the
Photometrics folder in the start menu. This will create the proper
PVCam. Ini in the c:\\windows folder. If that fails, type 'cmd' in the
"Search programs and files' box in the Start menu, and then type:

copy
C:\\Users\\username\\AppData\\Local\\VirtualStore\\Windows\\PVCAM.ini
C:\\Program Files\\Micro-Manager1.3

where you should replace 'username' with your username.
{% include notice icon="info" content="The directory 'Appdata' is not visible to the Windows file explorer." %}

--[Nico](User:Nico "wikilink") 11:33, 31 August 2007 (PDT)

## Notable changes

### Apr 8, 2016

Added support for Photometrics Prime camera. PrimeEnhance (DENOISING PP)
and PrimeLocate (Centroids) features are supported. Users are kindly
requested to upgrade PVCAM Runtime to version **3.1.9.1** that is
available at www.photometrics.com. Customers who are using the Presets
feature of Micro-Manager may need to re-create or update their preset
configuration because names of some camera properties have changed. E.g.
"Frame Transfer Parallel Clocking" has been shortened to "Frame
Transfer". A configuration that was prepared with older PVCAM and that
is using such property will not work with the new PVCAM.

### Feb 14, 2014

\[Windows only\] Added support for the new OptiMos camera. New property
"ExposeOutMode" has been added. This property controls the expose out
signal of the sCMOS sensor. Please see the OptiMos user manual for more
details. This feature is supported since **PVCAM 3.0.1**.

### Sep 5, 2013

\[Windows only\] Added support for FRAME\_INFO metadata and callback
acquisition. The FRAME\_INFO provides precise frame time-stamps with
supported cameras. Users are kindly requested to upgrade PVCAM to
version **2.9.11**.

### Jun 20, 2013

The adapter now supports micro-second exposure resolution. Exposure
values shorter than 60ms are automatically treated in micro-second
resolution. From now users can use exposure values like 50.5, 2.8, 0.09,
etc.

{% include Listserv_Search text="PVCAM" %}

