---
autogenerated: true
title: Roboscope project
redirect_from: /wiki/Roboscope_project
layout: page
---

It seems that there is an increase in scripting interface to MM. As some
of you know, I've been working on matlab toolbox that will allow very
flexible yet powerful microscopy control.

The toolbox uses Matlab's object oriented capabilities and the main
class in the Scope class. In each script we define a global rS object of
class Scope and changing its properties using set/get changes the
filters, move the stage etc. The Scope class has a container of Task
objects, each task defines a specific x,y,z filter set etc. The Scope
main method is "run" that just goes through these Tasks.

The Tasks objects inherits from a MetaData class that is really similar
to what Shalin called acquisition states in his post and I figured that
although the code is not as mature as I would like it to be, if it would
be helpful to others I might as well set it loose... Once everything is
installed properly writing the script that go through these tasks is
very easy. I'm attaching an example script that creates 25 tasks in a
grid. In this example all Tasks have the same channels, but it would be
very easy to change that by just adding an additional set(rS...) on the
loop that defines the Tasks.

The toolbox includes other features such as the ability of the rS object
to decide by its own on the order of Tasks based in heuristic
optimizations that minimized the travel distance and metadata management
that can save data in the tiff file header such as the well and plates
data and so on.

Anyway, I will post again when it will be a 'real' release, but I
figured since there were a discussion on scripting and micro-manager I
should post this update.

The code can be accessed at: <http://microscopytoolbox.googlecode.com>  
Use:  
svn checkout <http://microscopytoolbox.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/>
microscopytoolbox-read-only  
to checkout the code.

