---
autogenerated: true
title: Search Paths
redirect_from: /wiki/Search_Paths
layout: page
section: Programming
---

# Search Paths

## Introduction

If you install the official binary distribution of Micro-Manager, you
will not need to configure any search paths. However, if you have built
Micro-Manager yourself from the source, or are running Micro-Manager in
a special way (e.g. from MATLAB or from your own application), then you
need to ensure that the Core library and device adapters are correctly
located.

There are two sections in this page: how device adapters are loaded by
the Core, and how the MMCoreJ\_wrap native library is loaded. The
latter, of course, only applies if you are using the Core from Java.

Each of the two sections is divided into two parts: the Old Mechanism
and the New Mechanism. The New Mechanism is available since SVN r12743,
the nightly build of 20140210, or release 1.4.17. It has not been
clarified when the Old Mechanism took its current shape. The Old
Mechanism still works (except for a few corner cases that were
essentially bugs), but its use in new code is discouraged.

**A quick summary**: If you are using a version of MM after the New
Mechanism was added, and are using MMCoreJ, simply set the Java system
property `mmcorej.library.path` to the path to the directory containing
MMCoreJ\_wrap and the device adapters. This can be done by passing the
command-line argument

```
 -Dmmcorej.library.path=/path/to/libraries
```

to Java, or by calling

```
 System.setProperty("mmcorej.library.path", "/path/to/libraries");
```

### Device Adapter Search Paths

#### The Old Mechanism

The Core searches a list of paths. Paths can be added to the list by
calling the static method `CMMCore::addSearchPath()`
(`mmcorej.CMMCore.addSearchPath()` in Java). There is no way to remove
or reorder the paths.

The list of device adapters located in the search paths can be queried
with `CMMCore::getDeviceLibraries()`.

If you are running the Core by itself, the list of search paths is
initially empty. However, if you are using MMCoreJ (i.e. running from
Java), this is not the case.

In the case of MMCoreJ only, the search path is initially populated with
some default paths. Before the New Mechanism was introduced, the default
paths were the following (`$JARPATH` represents the directory containing
`MMCoreJ.jar`, and `$FIJIPLATFORM` is one of `win32`, `win64`, `macosx`,
`linux32`, or `linux64`):

-   `$JARPATH`
-   `$JARPATH/..`
-   `$JARPATH/../mm/$FIJIPLATFORM`
-   `$JARPATH/../..`
-   `$JARPATH/../../mm/$FIJIPLATFORM`
-   On Linux only, a compile-time hard-coded path where libraries are
    expected to be located

Java code that was written to work with the Old Mechanism should still
work for the time being, as long as the device adapters are located
wither in the same directory as MMCoreJ\_wrap (i.e. MMCoreJ\_wrap.dll or
libMMCoreJ\_wrap.jnilib or libMMCoreJ\_wrap.so) or in a directory
explicitly added by calling `CMMCore::addSearchPath()`. If you are
placing your device adapters in a different directory from
MMCoreJ\_wrap, you need to either add that directory to the search path
or switch to using the New Mechanism.

#### The New Mechanism

In the New Mechanism, the static methods `CMMCore::addSearchPath()` and
`CMMCore::getDeviceLibraries()` are deprecated. Instead, there are new
*instance* methods: `CMMCore::setDeviceAdapterSearchPaths()`,
`CMMCore::getDeviceAdapterSearchPaths()`, and
`CMMCore::getDeviceAdapterNames()`.

To ensure consistent behavior, the Old (deprecated) and New methods
should not be mixed within the same program.

Regardless of whether you are running from Java or not, the list of
search paths initially includes the path where the library (or
executable) containing the Core is located. So, for example, if your
device adapters are in the same directory as the MMCoreJ\_wrap native
library, they will be found without the need to set the search paths.

### MMCoreJ\_wrap Search Paths

#### The Old Mechanism

MMCoreJ\_wrap (MMCoreJ\_wrap.dll, libMMCoreJ\_wrap.jnilib, or
libMMCoreJ\_wrap.so) is searched for in the following directories
(`$JARPATH` represents the directory containing `MMCoreJ.jar`, and
`$FIJIPLATFORM` is one of `win32`, `win64`, `macosx`, `linux32`, or
`linux64`):

-   `$JARPATH`
-   `$JARPATH/..`
-   `$JARPATH/../mm/$FIJIPLATFORM`
-   `$JARPATH/../..`
-   `$JARPATH/../../mm/$FIJIPLATFORM`
-   On Linux only, a compile-time hard-coded path where libraries are
    expected to be located

If it is not found in any of the above directories, it is loaded from
the system default native library paths, usually given by the Java
system property `java.library.path`.

#### The New Mechanism

If the Java system property `mmcorej.library.path` is set, that path
(and only that path) is searched for MMCoreJ\_wrap. This is the
preferred mechanism and should be used by any new launchers.

Otherwise, for backward compatibility, the following paths are searched:

-   `$JARPATH`
-   `$JARPATH/..`
-   `$JARPATH/../mm/$FIJIPLATFORM`
-   `$JARPATH/../..`
-   `$JARPATH/../../mm/$FIJIPLATFORM`
-   On Linux only, a compile-time hard-coded path where libraries are
    expected to be located

If it is not found in any of the above directories, it is loaded from
the system default native library paths, usually given by the Java
system property `java.library.path`.

(The "Linux only" hard-coded path may be made configurable in the
future, so that it can be enabled or disabled at build time on both OS X
and Linux.)

