---
autogenerated: true
title: SpectralLMM5
layout: page
---

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Spectral LMM5 laser line controller

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

All

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Spectral
LMM5](http://www.spectralappliedresearch.com/products/mergemodule/)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Since Version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.2.6, USB support since version 1.4.15 (9/6/2013)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">
</td>
</tr>
</table>

The Spectral LMM5 is a controller that can control (shutter as well as
set intensity) of up to 8 laser lines. The lasers are physically
controlled with either an AOTF, or shutters and ND filters, however, the
LMM5 provides a uniform interface in all these situations.

The LMM5 comes with either a serial or USB interface port (newer models
will have both). {% include notice icon="info" content="As of Micro-Manager version
1.4.15 (9/6/2013), you can use the USB interface. No driver installation
is needed. In the Hardware Configuration Wizard, select the LMM5-Hub
device. The drop-down menu in the `Value` column next to the `Port`
pre-initialization property should contain the value `LMM5-HID.` Select
this port and you should be good to go." %}

If this does not work, you can also connect to the device using a serial
cable. Set the port to 19200 baud, no flow control, one stop bit, no
parity, 8 data bits, delaybetweenChars 0 ms.

In the configuration wizard you will need to add the LMM5-Hub object,
and at least one LMM5-Shutter object. You have the choice to either set
up multiple LMM5-Shutters (for instance, one for each laser line as well
as laser line combinations that you intend to use) or to set up a single
one (in that case, you can change which physical line this shutter will
control by changing the 'Label' property of this shutter).

In the first case (multiple shutters, one for each line that you want to
use), assign which lines are controlled by which shutters in the startup
group (in the main Micro-Manager panel, create a group 'System', in that
group make the preset 'Startup', in this group assign the desired label
to each shutter). In the second case, you should change the 'Label
property of your single shutter in each of your Channel definitions.

The adapter also lets you set the intensity of the individual laser
lines, and has some provisions for trigger out configurations (not well
tested).

--[Nico](/users/Nico "wikilink") 11:05, 12 February 2008 (PST)
