---
autogenerated: true
title: Standa
layout: page
---

## Standa Microstep Controller adapter

<table cellspacing=3>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>

<td markdown="1" valign="top">

Interface to Standa: 8SMC1-USBhF Microstep Driver

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

[Clarence Leung](mailto:clarence.leung@mail.mcgill.ca), Leslie Lab,
McGill University

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

Windows

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td markdown="1">

**Available since version:**

</td>

<td markdown="1">

1.4.15

</td>

</table>

### Installation

The device adapter requires the "Development Kit (C, C++ and other)"
available from [the official Standa page for the
controller](http://www.standa.lt/products/catalog/motorised_positioners?item=175&prod=microstep_driver_usb_interface).

Make sure to install the 32-bit or 64-bit version that matches your
Micro-Manager installation.

### Configuration

To configure the device adapter for use in Micro-Manager, make sure the
SMCView drivers are currently not in use, and that the MicroSMC drivers
are active instead. To do so, open up the Device Manager and make sure
"8SMC1-USB" or "8SMC1-USB MicroSMC" is the name of a device under
"Universal Serial Bus controllers".

If you have a device under "NI-VISA USB Devices" named "8SMC1-USB(h)",
then you are currently using the SMCView drivers, and must switch to the
drivers found in the development kit. Follow the instructions in the
[Standa user manual
(PDF)](http://www.standa.lt/files/usb/8SMC1-USBhF%20User%media/20Manual.pdf)
to switch between the NI-VISA and MicroSMC drivers.

The device currently has three main settings, which is the **device
number**, **stage limit in um**, and **step size in um**.

The **device number** of your attached device is based on the index of
the device in the "USMC\_Devices" data structure. If you're unfamiliar
with this, the device number is simply the order of your device from top
to bottom in SMCView, starting from zero.

Note that the **step size in um** is based on *microsteps*, and not full
steps. Specifically, a microstep in the controller is exactly 1/8 of a
full step, so divide accordingly when using this driver.

### Additional help

If you have any further questions about this device adapter, or you have
found a bug to report, please contact the author directly by e-mail.
