---
autogenerated: true
title: Stitching Micro-Manager Images
redirect_from: /wiki/Stitching_Micro-Manager_Images
layout: page
---

## Stitching Images Acquired in Micro-Manager

There are a number of programs available for stitching images acquired
in Micro-Manager, or stitching images more generally. For images
acquired from Micro-Manager, the simplest option is to use the
Grid/Collection Stitching Plugin. This is installed by default in the
[Fiji](http://fiji.sc) distribution. The major disadvantage to this
program is that it will not stitch images larger than 2.14 gigapixels.

### Acquiring a grid of images in Micro-Manager

The easiest way to do this is by using the Create Grid option in the
Multi-Dimensional acquisition GUI. To access it:

1.  Open up Multi-Dimensional Acquisition in Micro-Manager.
2.  Click the Edit position list button.
3.  Click the Create Grid button.
4.  Move to the left edge of your sample and click the left-most set
    button.
5.  Repeat this procedure for the other three edges of your sample.
6.  Set the overlap (5-20% seems to work well).
7.  Acquire your data (make sure to save in Image stack format).
8.  You may want to use the BFcorrector plugin to flat-field correct
    your images.

### Stitching images using the Grid/Collection Stitching plugin in Fiji

1.  The Grid/Collection Stitching Plugin is located in Plugins -&gt;
    Stitching -&gt; Grid/Collection Stitching.
2.  In the first dialog box, select Type: "Positions from file" and
    Order: "Defined by image metadata"
3.  In the second dialog box select the first position in your grid for
    "Multi series file".
4.  Depending on the orientation of your camera relative to your stage
    you may need to select "Invert X Coordinates" or "Invert Y
    Coordinates".
5.  Otherwise, the default options usually work well.
6.  Hit OK, and you should have your stitched image in a few minutes.
7.  This works for single channel and multicolor images, and should work
    for Z-stacks as well, although I haven't tested it as extensively
    for Z-stacks.

Information about other stitching options is available on the [NIC
wiki](http://nic.ucsf.edu/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=image_stitching_in_micro-manager).

