---
autogenerated: true
title: TriggerScopeMM
layout: page
---

| Summary:       | Adapter for the [TriggerScope](http://www.triggerscope.com/) using Micro-Manager firmware |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Author:        | Nico Stuurman, based on code by Austin Blanco                                             |
| License:       | LGPL                                                                                      |
| Platforms:     | Linux, Mac, and Windows                                                                   |
| Since version: | 2020-09-08                                                                                |

-----

**Serial port settings**:

|                     |                     |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| AnswerTimeout       | 500                 |
| BaudRate            | 115200              |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0                   |
| Handshaking         | Off                 |
| Parity              | None                |
| StopBits            | 1                   |
| Verbose             | 0 (1 for debugging) |

### Introduction

The Triggerscope is an Arduino-based devices that provides 16 analog
outputs and 16 digital outputs. These outputs can be used to control
equipment such as illumination light sources and z-stages. Outputs of
the Triggerscopes can be directly controlled from the computer using
serial commands. Outputs can also be pre-programmed and then cycled
through this program by pulses (for instance generated by a camera)
connected to one of the input ports. This enables fast synchronization
between devices. This firmware and device adapter were created for
smooth inter-operation between the TriggerScope and Micro-Manager (there
also is a \[TriggerScope device adapter\] for the original TriggerScope
firmware).

### Firmware Installation

This adapter was written for "MM" firmware. Download from [its Github
repository](https://github.com/micro-manager/TriggerScopeMM/) and
install using the [Arduino
IDE](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/Software).

### Overview

This device adapter exposes the TriggerScope through 16 analog out
devices (only use those you need in the Hardware Configuration Wizard)
and 2 digital output devices. The digital output devices each control 8
TTL outputs (1-8 and 9-16 respectively). Both TTL output devices have
properties to set the state of the individual digital output pins. Use
those to determine the desired "State". However, do not use these in
Channel preset, but use the "State: property instead. Doing so will
greatly reduce the amount of communication with the device, hence speed
things up (and make it possible to use Sequence driven by the input
trigger).

To use the TTL outputs as a shutter, select the "State Device Shutter"
(from the Utilities adapter) in the hardware configuration wizard, and
set its "State Device" property to the TriggerScope TTL device.

To use a DAC to drive a Z stage, connect the DAC output to the Z-stage,
and select the "DA Z Stage" from the Utilities adapter.

To use a DAC as a shutter, use the "DA Shutter" device from the
Utilities adapter.

All DACs and TTLs support "blanking" and "sequences", causing the output
to respond to the state of input pin 1 within micro-seconds. Blanking
will cause the output to go to 0V when the input pin is low (or high).
Sequences will be pre-loaded to the Triggerscope, and changes in input
pin state will cause transition to the next state. Blanking and
sequences can be combined. The "Utilities" devices will use blanking and
sequencing capabilities (if they are enabled in the TriggerScope
properties). The exact response time will vary somewhat with the number
of DACs and TTLs that are actively blanking/sequencing; each TTL (group)
will add about 3 micro-seconds, and each DAC will add about 25
micro-seconds.

{% include Devices_Sidebar text="" %}
