_pages/TSI.md, before:

---
autogenerated: true
title: TSI
redirect_from: /wiki/TSI
layout: page
---

## Summary: Thorlabs Scientific Imaging Cameras

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Thorlabs Scientific Imaging (TSI) Camera

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Nenad Amodaj](http://nenad.amodaj.com)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Microsoft Windows 7 and up, both 32 and 64 bit

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

all [Thorlabs Scientific
Imaging](https://www.thorlabs.com/navigation.cfm?guide_id=2365) series
cameras

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Installation Instructions

This adapter is compatible with all Thorlabs Scientific Imaging cameras
(TSI). Before configuring the camera with micro-manager,
[ThorCam](https://www.thorlabs.com/software_pages/ViewSoftwarePage.cfm?Code=ThorCam)
software must be installed and verified to operate as intended. After
installing ThorCam software make sure that camera is fully functional
and that it can acquire both in single image and live streaming mode.

For MicroManager support for all Thorlabs Scientific Cameras (340, 1500,
1501, 4070, 8050, 8051, CS2100M-USB, CS235MU, CS235CU, CS505MU, CS505CU,
CS505MUP, CS895MU, and CS895CU), please follow these directions:

1\. Install ThorCam and the appropriate drivers using the installer CD
that came with a camera or download an installer from the appropriate
product page at Thorlabs.com.

2\. The latest stable release (Micro-Manager 2.0.0 (July 13, 2021)) is
unfortunately not working with some of the above listed cameras but 
will most certanly work with one of the latest nightly builds.
Alternatively, you can try installing Micro-Manager nightly build dated
July 15, 2019 or later (1.4 or 2.0). 
On 64-bit Windows, install 64-bit MicroManager. On 32-bit Windows,
install 32-bit MicroManager. (Thorlabs cameras do not currently support
32-bit MicroManager on 64-bit Windows). 

3\. From the Thorcam installation folder (usually C:\\Program
Files\\Thorlabs\\Scientific Imaging\\Scientific Camera Support\\), copy
the file called Scientific\_Camera\_Interfaces.zip to a separate folder
where you have sufficient permissions to unzip it (e.g. the desktop
folder).

4\. Unzip the Scientific\_Camera\_Interfaces.zip archive and it will
create a folder hierarchy with a folder named Scientific Camera
Interfaces at the top level.

5\. Navigate to \\Scientific Camera Interfaces\\SDK\\Native Compact
Scientific Camera Toolkit\\dlls and you will see a Native\_32\_lib and a
Native\_64\_lib folder.

6\. Choose the appropriate folder (Native\_32\_lib vs. Native\_64\_lib)
based on whether you installed 64-bit Micromanager or 32-bit
Micromanager.

7\. Copy all the DLLs from that folder into the Micromanager
installation folder.

3-7-alternative: You will need to copy from here: C:\\Program
Files\\Thorlabs\\Scientific Imaging\\Scientific Camera
Support\\Scientific Camera Interfaces\\SDK\\DotNet
Toolkit\\dlls\\Managed\_64\_lib.

It is also possible that some of the dll’s are missing from this
location if you are using ThorCam 3.4. If this is the case, please also
copy the dll’s from the ThorCam installation location here: C:\\Program
Files\\Thorlabs\\Scientific Imaging\\ThorCam . Some of these dll’s will
be duplicates.

8\. In MicroManager, go to Tools-&gt;Hardware Configuration Wizard.
Create or modify a configuration and click Next. Scroll through the
available devices to find TSI-&gt;TSICam.

After adding the TSICam device, proceed to next steps of the Hardware
Configuration Wizard as described in the micro-manager documentation.

### Legacy Camera Support

If you have one of the legacy camera models (consult Thorlabs support if
you are not sure) this driver should work. Verify that TSI\_SDK.dll file
is present in the micro-manager directory. However, you can not have
both legacy and standard cameras connected with the same computer.

{% include Listserv_Search text="TSI" %}

Commit message:

Clarify multiple camera support in TSI documentation

_pages/TSI.md, after:

---
autogenerated: true
title: TSI
redirect_from: /wiki/TSI
layout: page
---

## Summary: Thorlabs Scientific Imaging Cameras

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Thorlabs Scientific Imaging (TSI) Camera

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Nenad Amodaj](http://nenad.amodaj.com)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Microsoft Windows 7 and up, both 32 and 64 bit

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

all [Thorlabs Scientific
Imaging](https://www.thorlabs.com/navigation.cfm?guide_id=2365) series
cameras

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Installation Instructions

This adapter is compatible with all Thorlabs Scientific Imaging cameras
(TSI). Before configuring the camera with micro-manager,
[ThorCam](https://www.thorlabs.com/software_pages/ViewSoftwarePage.cfm?Code=ThorCam)
software must be installed and verified to operate as intended. After
installing ThorCam software make sure that camera is fully functional
and that it can acquire both in single image and live streaming mode.

For MicroManager support for all Thorlabs Scientific Cameras (340, 1500,
1501, 4070, 8050, 8051, CS2100M-USB, CS235MU, CS235CU, CS505MU, CS505CU,
CS505MUP, CS895MU, and CS895CU), please follow these directions:

1\. Install ThorCam and the appropriate drivers using the installer CD
that came with a camera or download an installer from the appropriate
product page at Thorlabs.com.

2\. The latest stable release (Micro-Manager 2.0.0 (July 13, 2021)) is
unfortunately not working with some of the above listed cameras but 
will most certanly work with one of the latest nightly builds.
Alternatively, you can try installing Micro-Manager nightly build dated
July 15, 2019 or later (1.4 or 2.0). 
On 64-bit Windows, install 64-bit MicroManager. On 32-bit Windows,
install 32-bit MicroManager. (Thorlabs cameras do not currently support
32-bit MicroManager on 64-bit Windows). 

3\. From the Thorcam installation folder (usually C:\\Program
Files\\Thorlabs\\Scientific Imaging\\Scientific Camera Support\\), copy
the file called Scientific\_Camera\_Interfaces.zip to a separate folder
where you have sufficient permissions to unzip it (e.g. the desktop
folder).

4\. Unzip the Scientific\_Camera\_Interfaces.zip archive and it will
create a folder hierarchy with a folder named Scientific Camera
Interfaces at the top level.

5\. Navigate to \\Scientific Camera Interfaces\\SDK\\Native Compact
Scientific Camera Toolkit\\dlls and you will see a Native\_32\_lib and a
Native\_64\_lib folder.

6\. Choose the appropriate folder (Native\_32\_lib vs. Native\_64\_lib)
based on whether you installed 64-bit Micromanager or 32-bit
Micromanager.

7\. Copy all the DLLs from that folder into the Micromanager
installation folder.

3-7-alternative: You will need to copy from here: C:\\Program
Files\\Thorlabs\\Scientific Imaging\\Scientific Camera
Support\\Scientific Camera Interfaces\\SDK\\DotNet
Toolkit\\dlls\\Managed\_64\_lib.

It is also possible that some of the dll’s are missing from this
location if you are using ThorCam 3.4. If this is the case, please also
copy the dll’s from the ThorCam installation location here: C:\\Program
Files\\Thorlabs\\Scientific Imaging\\ThorCam . Some of these dll’s will
be duplicates.

8\. In MicroManager, go to Tools-&gt;Hardware Configuration Wizard.
Create or modify a configuration and click Next. Scroll through the
available devices to find TSI-&gt;TSICam.

After adding the TSICam device, proceed to next steps of the Hardware
Configuration Wizard as described in the micro-manager documentation.

As of 20250910, this device adapter supports multiple cameras.  In the Hardware Confirguation Wizard,
add a TSI camera for each one you have.  Specify the serial number (zero will select the first one),
making sure not to select the same serial number twice.

### Legacy Camera Support

If you have one of the legacy camera models (consult Thorlabs support if
you are not sure) this driver should work. Verify that TSI\_SDK.dll file
is present in the micro-manager directory. However, you can not have
both legacy and standard cameras connected with the same computer.

{% include Listserv_Search text="TSI" %}
