---
autogenerated: true
title: Using Eclipse
layout: page
---

{% include notice icon="info" content="These instructions are not up to date. If you are just looking for a way to use a Java IDE, see the instructions for [[Using Netbeans]]." %}

1.  Download and install [Eclipse Kepler](http://www.eclipse.org/). It
    was formerly claimed that ne can't use the newer Luna, Mars, etc
    releases, as those [rely on JDK
    1.7](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Eclipse/Installation), whereas we are
    limited JDK to 1.6 due to ImageJ. However, you can use the newer
    Eclipse releases and in the project settings under "Java Compiler"
    set it to use a project-specific setting requiring compliance with
    1.6.

<!-- -->

1.  Start Eclipse, when prompted set the workspace to a new directory
    (NOT the Micro-Manager source).

<!-- -->

1.  Create a new Java Project (File-&gt;New-&gt;Other).

<!-- -->

1.  Select 'Create project from existing source' and specifiy the
    'mmstudio' directory in the Micro-Manager source. Newer versions of
    Eclipse (i.e. Helios) do not have this option. Instead use the 'Java
    Project from Existing Ant Buildfile' option, select the
    'mmstudio/build\[32/64\].xml' file to suit your platform. Name the
    project (for instance: 'Micro-Manager1.4'). Click 'Next'.

<!-- -->

1.  In the Java settings screen, add the following external jars (if
    they have not been included already) under the 'Libraries' tab:
    ij.jar, bsh-2.0b4.jar, clojure.jar, clojure-contrib.jar,
    commons-math-2.0.jar, swing-layout-1.0.4.jar and swingx-0.9.5.jar.
    These can be found in the '3rdpartypublic/classext' directory that
    must reside alongside your MM source code. Also add 'MMCoreJ.jar'.
    This can be found in the 'bin' directory of your Micro-Manager
    source on Windows, or in the MMCoreJ\_wrap directory on Mac and
    Linux. Expand the 'MMCoreJ.jar' entry in the 'Libraries' tab and
    edit the 'Native library location' such that is points to the root
    directory of your MM source code.

<!-- -->

1.  The source code should now compile without errors (but with
    warnings).

<!-- -->

1.  Setup the runtime environment: Open the project's properties
    (Project-&gt;Properties), select the 'Run/Debug Settings' and click
    'New'. Select 'Java Application'. For 'Main Class' select
    'MMStudioMainFrame'. Under 'Arguments', set the Working directory'
    to the bin folder in your Micro-Manager source directory.

<!-- -->

1.  When all is good, you can start Micro-Manager (without ImageJ
    window) by pressing the green arrow in Eclipse.

<!-- -->

1.  To debug C++ code, attach your debugger to the running javaw
    instance. In Visual Studio: Debug-&gt;Attach to Process, select the
    appropriate javaw process. On Unix, use top or ps to find the
    process and start gdb: gdb Jave processID.

