---
autogenerated: true
title: Velleman K8061
layout: page
---

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Velleman K8061 digital IO board adapter

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Mac/Linux/Windows

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Velleman K8061](http://www.velleman.be/ot/en/product/view/?id=364910)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[MMConfig_K8061.cfg](media/MMConfig_K8061.cfg "wikilink")

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Micro-Manager version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.2.6

</td>
</tr>
</table>

The Velleman K8061 is a low cost digital IO board (\~$120 unassembled,
\~$50 more assembled - part nr.: VM140). It provides 8 digital out and 8
analogue out channels (as well as analogue and digital in) that can be
used for things like TTLs or AOTF control. The board has a switching
time of \~4 ms. Since this board has 8 rather than 2 analogue out and is
significantly faster than the Velleman K8055, it will often be a better
choice than the K8055 (but it needs a whole lot more soldering).

The Micro-Manager adapter was based on the source code for the Windows
DLL posted by Velleman. The adapter provides a switch, a shutter, and
DAC outputs. You will need to define the 'Hub' device. The 'Hub' takes
one parameter, which is the name of the (USB) port that belongs to the
K8061. Simply select the K8061 port (which you also need to select on
page 2 of the hardware config wizard).

For each DAC that you want to use, add a new one in the Hardware config
wizard. You can set the channel and the voltage (5 or 10 V, set with
jumpers on the board) for each of the channels. The 'switch' determines
which of the 8 output channels will be active. The switch is a single
byte, each bit in this byte sets the corresponding channel (for
instance, the value '3' will set channels 1 and 2). On my board the
logic was somehow inverted, causing the number '1' to switch channel 8.
The shutter will switch the active channels on and off.

{% include Note text="To use the digital outs, one needs to provide input voltage (5-30V) to the Clamp and Ground pins on the K8061 board." %}

On Windows, you will need to install the driver provided in this [K8061
Driver](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/drivers/media/K8061Driver.zip) folder.

Also see Austin Blanco's [blog](http://austinblanco.com/blog/?p=209).

--[Nico](User:Nico "wikilink") 18:21, 2 March 2008 (PST)

