---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 Users Guide
redirect_from: /wiki/Version_2.0_Users_Guide
layout: page
section: Learn:Version 2.0
---

This document provides an extensive guide to using µManager, and is
recommended reading for new users.

## Introduction

Modern microscopes have many computer-controlled components that need to
work in harmony for accurate data to be collected. Shutters and light
sources must be opened and closed with precise timing, synchronized with
the camera that takes the image; filter wheels must be positioned to
allow only the desired wavelengths of light; XY and Z stages must
precisely position the sample. Performing even simple data acquisitions
requires many precise steps to be carried out.

µManager is a program for performing these complicated data
acquisitions. It handles all of the hardware control and
synchronization, while presenting a simplified yet powerful interface
that allows the user to easily set up the data acquisitions they want to
use.

While this interface is all that the vast majority of users will ever
need to use, the µManager developers know that optical microscopy is a
continually-developing field, and scientists are continually
experimenting with new techniques. For that reason, µManager provides
its advanced users with direct hardware control, allowing them to
implement customized behaviors while still leveraging the program's
convenient features for more conventional imaging. And if even that
isn't enough, µManager (unlike all other microscope control programs in
common use) is open-source, so scientists always have the freedom to
implement exactly the routines and techniques that they need to perform
their experiments.

Finally, µManager has strong integration with
[ImageJ](http://imagej.net/Welcome) and with MatLab, allowing users to
leverage these programs to perform their data analysis. In conjunction
with ImageJ, µManager makes a powerful, flexible, and open-source
microscopy "stack" with unprecedented levels of user control.

## Installation

There are separate installation procedures for each of µManager's three
supported systems. You can download appropriate installers from
[Downloads page](Download_Micro-Manager_Latest_Release). In
addition to the system-specific installation rules below, you may need
to install drivers for your specific hardware. See the [Device
Support](Device_Support) page for more information.

All installations include a built-in copy of ImageJ and automatic
support for common hardware that does not require special drivers. When
you launch µManager, it will automatically run ImageJ as well from its
built-in copy. This version of ImageJ is separate from any version you
may have installed independently. If you have customized your ImageJ
installation (for example with extra plugins or macros), you can perform
the same customizations to µManager by copying files from ImageJ to
µManager.

While there are no specific minimum requirements for running µManager,
we recommend a 64-bit system with at least a 1.7GHz processor. More RAM
is often helpful for running high-speed acquisitions, and if you want to
run extremely rapid acquisitions (upwards of 1GB/second of incoming
data) then you should read [High Speed Acquisition in
Micro-Manager](High_Speed_Acquisition_in_Micro-Manager).

### Installation on Windows

Run the installation .exe file (e.g. "MMSetup\_64bit\_xxx.exe", where
"xxx" is the version number). The software will be installed in your
Program Files directory (typically at C:\\Program Files).

### Installation on MacOS X

Open the .dmg file you downloaded, by double-clicking on it. This will
bring up a window that contains the µManager program folder. Copy this
folder into your Applications directory to install it. For trial
purposes you can also run it directly by simply double-clicking on it.

To deal with newer MacOS security features, you may need to first right
click on ImageJ and select "Open" and then press the "Open" button on
the window that appears. Also to deal with
"[randomization](https://imagej.nih.gov/ij/docs/install/osx.html#randomization)"
do the following: Within the Micro-Manger folder in Applications, hold
command and drag ImageJ onto the desktop. Then hold command and drag it
back in. Then try running again. After these steps, Micro-Manager should
start normally.

### Installation on Linux

Please see [Linux installation from source
(Ubuntu)](Linux_installation_from_source_(Ubuntu)).

### Memory Settings

It is often necessary to adjust memory settings in order to optimize
Micro-Manager performance and prevent errors. See the [Configuration
Guide](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide#memory-settings) for
guidelines.

## Getting Started

### Intro Dialog

When you launch the program, you'll be presented with a splash screen:

TODO insert new splash screen here!

This dialog has three important features:

#### Hardware Configuration Files

The "Configuration file" dropdown menu allows you to select a file that
tells µManager how to communicate with the microscope hardware you have
installed. If you've never run µManager before, then you won't have one
of these yet. For now, use the "MMConfig\_demo.cfg" option, which
contains a full suite of simulated hardware (all screenshots in this
guide will be using this demo config). We'll set up a proper
configuration file later. Or alternately, select the "(none)" option to
run µManager without any hardware.

#### User Profiles

µManager contains a user profile system, which is used to remember
things like window positions, acquisition settings, recently-accessed
files, and more. The "User profile" dropdown menu allows you to select
which profile to use, and to create or delete existing profiles. User
profiles are primarily useful if you have multiple people sharing the
same operating system account; if each user has a separate OS account,
then you can simply use the "Default profile" option for each person.

#### License Information

µManager includes contributions from a large number of people and
organizations, and relies on many open-source libraries that each have
their own licenses. The "License Info" button takes you to a dialog that
lists all of the contributors and licenses that went into making
µManager possible.

### The µManager Main Window

#### Main Window

The main window in µManager provides access to many important
capabilities.

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_mainWindow.png" title="Main Window" width="600" alt="Main Window" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Main Window</figcaption>
</figure>

There's a lot here, so we're going to break it out into separate
sections that we'll tackle one at a time.

One quick note before we get started: on OSX, the menu bar at the top of
the screen changes depending on which window has focus. If you want to
access µManager's menus, then the µManager main window must have focus.

#### Snapping Images and Live Mode

In the upper-left corner are the Snap and Live buttons. You can use
these to acquire images using your current camera and illumination
settings.

![Snap/Live Buttons](/media/UsersGuide_snapLive.png "Snap/Live Buttons")

This will bring up an image window:

![Image Window](/media/UsersGuide_imageWindow.png "Image Window")

The test pattern displayed in this window was generated by the simulated
camera that the MMConfig\_demo.cfg hardware configuration file
specified.

See [Image Windows](#image-windows) for more information.

The first new image window in each session also creates a new Inspector
window:

![Inspector Window](/media/UsersGuide_inspector.png "Inspector Window")

These windows allow you to adjust the contrast of your image display,
provide access to image metadata, and more. See [Inspector
Windows](#inspector-windows) for more information.

#### Using the Album

![Album Button](/media/UsersGuide_albumButton.png "Album Button")

Clicking on the "Album" button will snap a new image and add it to the
"album", which is a simple collection of sequential images.

#### Acquiring Multi-Dimensional Datasets

![MDA Button](/media/UsersGuide_mdaButton.png "MDA Button")

The "Multi-D Acq" button brings up the Multi-Dimensional Acquisition
dialog:

![MDA Dialog](/media/UsersGuide_mdaDialog.png "MDA Dialog")

This allows you to set up complex image acquisitions: timeseries,
Z-stacks, multi-channel, multi-stage-position, and combinations of those
axes. See [Multi-Dimensional
Acquisition](#multi-dimensional-acquisition) for more
information.

#### Refreshing the UI

![Refresh Button](/media/UsersGuide_refreshButton.png "Refresh Button")

It is possible for the GUI to get out of sync with the current state of
the microscope hardware (for example, if you manually move a
computerized component, or if you use a joystick to move the stage).
Clicking on the "Refresh" button will cause the GUI to update itself to
accurately reflect the current state of the hardware.

#### Close All Image Windows

![Close All Button](/media/UsersGuide_closeAllButton.png "Close All Button")

You may sometimes find yourself with an excess of image windows that
contain throwaway data. This button allows you to close all
currently-open image windows. It will prompt you for whether you want to
get a save prompt for each window containing unsaved data, or if you
would rather force all of them closed without further prompts.

#### Imaging Settings

![Imaging Settings](/media/UsersGuide_imagingSettings.png "Imaging Settings")

These settings allow you to control how images are acquired.

-   Exposure: sets the exposure time for images. "Exposure time" in
    µManager always refers to the *camera* exposure time, not the sample
    exposure time.
-   Changroup: set the [config group](#configuration-groups)
    that is used to control the channel
-   Binning: set the bin mode for the camera, which allows you to
    combine multiple physical pixels together (for example, in 2x2
    binning, 4 physical pixels are combined into a single image pixel).
-   Shutter: set the hardware device that will be used for shuttering
    when images are acquired. If you have multiple different light paths
    (e.g. LED vs. laser vs. brightfield) then you can use this to switch
    between them.
-   Auto/manual shutter controls: normally, µManager is in auto-shutter
    mode, where the shutter is opened automatically when images are
    acquired, and closed otherwise. By unchecking the "Auto" checkbox,
    you can switch to manual shutter mode, in which you can open or
    close the shutter by either clicking on the "Open/Close" button or
    on the shutter state indicator. This can be useful, for example, for
    illuminating your sample while looking through the eyepiece.

#### Configuration Groups

![Config Groups](/media/UsersGuide_configGroups.png "Config Groups")

This section of the main window allows you to create and manipulate
"config groups", which are collections of related hardware settings. See
[Config Groups](#config-groups) for more information.

#### Miscellaneous Settings

![Other buttons](/media/UsersGuide_tinyButtons.png "Other buttons")

These buttons provide various miscellaneous features.

-   ROI: allows you to set a "Region of Interest" on the camera, so that
    only a portion of the camera's field of view will be used for
    imaging. On many cameras, this will speed up your maximum framerate.
    Use ImageJ's rectangular selection tool on the Snap/Live view to
    draw the ROI you want to image, and then click on the left button to
    set the ROI; snap a new image to see the ROI in action. Click on the
    right button to cancel the current ROI and return to full-field
    imaging.

<!-- -->

-   Stage: provides various functions relating to the stage used to
    position your sample.
    -   Leftmost button: brings up the [Stage
        Control](#stage-control) dialog, which allows you to
        move the stage using a virtual joystick.
    -   Middle button: enables the "Mouse Moves Stage" mode. In this
        mode, you can use ImageJ's Hand tool to drag the live view
        around. Using this requires you to have set up a valid [Pixel
        Calibration](#pixel-calibration) beforehand.
    -   Right button: brings up the [Stage Position
        List](#stage-position-list) dialog, which allows you
        to record stage positions for future use.
-   Autofocus: allows you to configure and use your hardware or software
    autofocus system.
    -   Left button: performs an autofocus action using the
        currently-set autofocus device.
    -   Right button: brings up the autofocus dialog so you can select
        which autofocus device to use and how it should be configured.

## Image Windows

![Image Window](/media/UsersGuide_imageWindowMultiAxis.png "Image Window")

This window shows the output of your camera, including metadata about
the image size, channel used, current stage position, etc. The image
pixel display is on top, along with various metadata about the current
image. Below that is the axis scrollbars that allow you to scroll
through your dataset:

![Image Window axis
scrollbars](/media/UsersGuide_imageWindowAxes.png "Image Window axis scrollbars")

This dataset has four axes: Z (slice), channel, stage position, and
timepoints. Each axis has the following controls, from left to right:

-   The axis label button. Clicking on this button toggles animation of
    the axis, wherein the display automatically scrolls through the axis
    positions. For example, animating the Z axis will cause the display
    to scroll through all Z positions, scanning through the 3D volume
    acquired at this timepoint and stage position.
-   The current position along the axis. In this screenshot, the Z axis
    is at position 2 of 6, channel is at 1 of 2, stage position is at 4
    of 4, and timepoint is at 5 of 5. Clicking on this position
    indicator will pop up a text field to allow you to type the precise
    position you want to go to.
-   A scrollbar that can be used to manually scroll through the
    positions.
-   A lock icon, which can be used to prevent the display from modifying
    this axis while data is acquired. The lock icon has three states,
    which you can cycle between by clicking. When unlocked, the display
    will change the axis to reflect the most recently-received image
    during acquisition. When locked, the display will briefly show
    newly-acquired images, but "snap back" to the current position after
    a short delay. And when "superlocked" (with a red lock icon), the
    display will never change the axis.
-   A link icon, which is only visible if you have at least two image
    windows open. See [Linking Displays](#linking-displays)
    for more information.

The "FPS" button indicates the playback FPS when animating axes by
clicking on the axis label buttons. Click on it to adjust the animation
rate.

Along the bottom of the window is a row of buttons. The precise buttons
available in an image window depend on whether it is an acquisition
window or the Snap/Live window. Snap/Live has these three special
buttons:

1.  Snap: Snap another image, replacing the image currently displayed.
2.  Live: Enable a live feed from the camera, continuously updating the
    displayed image as fast as possible. Click again to turn live off.
3.  Snap to Album: Snap a new image and add it to the "album", which is
    an ad-hoc collection of images.

Acquisition windows have these two special buttons:

1.  Abort acquisition: after a confirmation dialog, will halt the
    acquisition.
2.  Pause acquisition: temporarily pauses the acquisition, allowing it
    to be resumed later. Note that acquisitions may only be paused if
    they are not [Sequence
    Acquisitions](#sequence-acquisitions). If your
    acquisition consists of multiple sequence acquisitions, then you can
    pause it in-between sequences (clicking once will automatically
    pause at the first opportunity).

Both window types have the following generic buttons:

1.  Fullscreen: toggle full-screen mode for this image window.
2.  Zoom In/Out: changes the scale of the image in the image window.
    This solely changes how many pixels in your computer monitor are
    used to display each pixel in the image; it does not change any
    hardware.
3.  Save: Save this dataset to disk
4.  Settings: access miscellaneous settings:

### Image Window Settings

![Image Window
Settings](/media/UsersGuide_imageWindowSettings.png "Image Window Settings")

1.  Open New Inspector Window: this creates a new [Inspector
    Window](#inspector-windows) that you can tie to this
    image window.
2.  Duplicate This Window: creates a new image window that shows the
    same data as the current image window. This does not duplicate the
    data, just create a second "view" of it. While of limited utility
    for the Snap/Live view, this can be useful for larger datasets, as
    you can use the two windows to view different parts of the data
    side-by-side.
3.  Show Line Profile: brings up the [Line
    Profile](#line-profile) window.
4.  Export Images As Displayed: brings up the [Export
    Images](#export-images) window.

### Line Profile

The Line Profile shows you a graph of image pixel intensities along a
line that you have drawn on your image. You can use ImageJ's Line tool
to draw a linear ROI on your image:

![Line Profile on an
image](/media/UsersGuide_lineProfileImage.png "Line Profile on an image")

The Line Profile menu option will then show you a graph like this:

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_lineProfile.png" title="Line Profile Graph" width="600" alt="Line Profile Graph" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Line Profile Graph</figcaption>
</figure>

The profile will be automatically updated when either the image or the
line is changed.

### Export Images

This dialog allows you to export a series of image files that show your
data as it is currently being displayed in the image window:

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_exportImages.png" title="Export Images Dialog" width="600" alt="Export Images Dialog" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Export Images Dialog</figcaption>
</figure>

This can be useful for generating images or movies for use in
presentations. It is not recommended that you use this dialog for
preserving your raw data; instead use the "Save" button. This export
system does not preserve image metadata, and because it uses your
current contrast settings, will not necessarily preserve accurate image
pixel intensities (it is a "lossy" storage system, not a lossless one).

### Linking Displays

Oftentimes if you have multiple image windows open, it's because you
want to compare some similar aspect of them. µManager provides the
ability to easily "link" displays together, which will cause changes to
one display to be reflected in the other. Currently, two aspects of
displays can be linked: their image coordinates, and their contrast
settings.

#### Linking Image Coordinates

When you have two image windows open, and they both have at least one
axis in common (for example, they both have a Time axis), you can link
that axis by clicking on the link button in one of the image windows:

![Link Button](/media/UsersGuide_linkButton.png "Link Button")

This will pop up a menu allowing you to link the window to other
windows, by name. Select the other window's name, and the two windows
are linked on that axis; if you change the position of that axis in one
window, it will automatically be changed in the other window as well.

#### Linking Contrast Settings

As with image coordinates above, if you have two image windows that have
the same channel (for example, both have a channel named "DAPI"), then a
link button will be added to the histogram in the [Inspector
window](#inspector-windows), just to the right of the channel
color swatch:

![Linking Contrast](/media/UsersGuide_linkingContrast.png "Linking Contrast")

Clicking on the link button allows you to link contrast with the other
image window; adjustments made to the contrast in one window will then
automatically be made to the other window as well.

## Inspector Windows

![Inspector Window](/media/UsersGuide_inspector.png "Inspector Window")

The Inspector window is a versatile tool for helping your adjust and
examine your image data. It floats on top of other windows, ensuring you
can't lose it. You can have multiple Inspector windows open at a time;
to create a new one, select the "Open New Inspector Window" option from
the [Image Window Settings](#image-window-settings) menu of
any image window.

Each Inspector window will by default show information for the topmost
image window. However, you can "tie" an Inspector to a specific window
by selecting that window's name from the "Show info for" dropdown menu.

The Inspector has multiple different panels, which are addressed
individually below.

### Histograms and Settings

![Histograms Panel](/media/UsersGuide_histograms.png "Histograms Panel")

This panel shows information about the distribution of pixel intensities
in your image, and allows you to adjust the brightness and contrast of
your image displays. The above screenshot shows information for a
three-channel dataset. Along the top are settings that apply to all
channels; following that is a separate panel for each individual
channel.

#### Global Histogram Controls

##### Histogram Gear Menu

-   Gear menu (located in the "Histograms and Settings" header):

![Histograms gear
menu](/media/UsersGuide_histogramGears.png "Histograms gear menu")

This menu provides access to some uncommonly-used settings:

-   -   Logarithmic Y Axis: allows you to toggle the Y axis of
        histograms between a linear scale and a logarithmic scale.
    -   Calculate Standard Deviation: adds standard deviation to the
        list of statistics calculated about each image (see [Image
        Statistics](#image-statistics) below). This can
        slightly reduce display framerates due to the extra calculations
        involved.
    -   Color Presets: select colors to use for all channels. µManager
        has two built-in color presets: an RGB set and a
        colorblind-friendly set (which is the default). Individual
        channels can also have their colors set manually.
    -   Histogram Update Rate: set how frequently histograms are
        recalculated. Histogram calculation is a CPU-intensive process
        and may slow down the rate at which images can be displayed on
        your computer. Calculating histograms less frequently or not at
        all can therefore improve framerates.

<!-- -->

-   Color mode:

![Color Mode selector](/media/UsersGuide_colorMode.png "Color Mode selector")

This dropdown menu allows you to choose how color is used when looking
at grayscale images. You have the following options:

-   -   Color: A single channel will be displayed at a time, using the
        color selected for the channel (see [Channel
        Colors](#channel-colors) below).
    -   Composite: All channels are displayed simultaneously, using
        color blending.
    -   Grayscale: A single channel will be displayed at a time, using
        only black, white, and grays.
    -   False-Color LUTs: A variety of LUTs (Lookup Tables) are provided
        that apply false colors to a single channel at a time.

-   Autostretch: turns on or off automatic contrast calculation. When
    this is enabled, each time histograms are calculated, the "black
    point" is automatically set to the darkest pixel in the image, and
    the "white point" is automatically set to the brightest pixel.

-   Ignore %: allows you to adjust the pixel values that are used for
    contrast settings when Autostretch is enabled, so that a value
    slightly "back" from the darkest/brightest pixel is used instead.
    For example, if this is set to .1%, then instead of using the
    brightest pixel, the 99.9%th brightest pixel will be used instead.
    This is useful if you have pixels whose values you want to ignore
    for purposes of calculating contrast.

#### Individual Channel Histograms

![Single histogram
panel](/media/UsersGuide_singleHistogramHighlighted.png "Single histogram panel")

This shows a histogram for a single channel in your dataset. The most
important function of this panel is to allow you to adjust how the
channel is displayed by manipulating the brightness and contrast of the
display. This does not affect the image pixel values; it only affects
how they are shown on your screen.

To change the contrast, simply click and drag on the two triangles
indicated by the red boxes in the above screenshot. By dragging the top
box, you will change which pixel intensity indicates the "white point",
or maximum intensity. By dragging the bottom box, you will change the
"black point", or minimum intensity. By clicking and dragging on the
line indicated by the green arrow, you will change the gamma, which is
the curve used to interpolate between the black and white points. The
default gamma is linear, but different gammas can be used to emphasize
subtle variations in image intensities.

In addition to these abilities, the histogram provides the following
other details:

#### Channel Colors

![Single histogram name and
color](/media/UsersGuide_histogramName.png "Single histogram name and color")

This sidebar indicates the channel name, and allows you to change the
channel color by clicking on the colored square. The "Full" button
automatically sets the black and white point to 0 and the maximum
intensity that your camera is capable of providing. The "Auto once"
button automatically performs a single autostretch, as if the
"Autostretch" check box had been enabled.

If you have multiple channels available, then an eye button will appear
to the left of the channel color swatch. Clicking it will turn on and
off display of this channel when in composite view mode.

If there is another image window that has data for this channel, then a
link button will appear to the right of the channel color swatch. See
[Linking Displays](#linking-displays) for more information.

![Histogram view
scale](/media/UsersGuide_histogramScale.png "Histogram view scale")

This dropdown menu and associated zoom arrows allows you to set the X
axis scale for the histogram, so you can "zoom in" on a specific range
of intensities. The "Camera Depth" option (usually selected by default)
will automatically set the scale to cover from 0 to the maximum
intensity that your camera is capable of providing.

#### Image Statistics

![Histogram
statistics](/media/UsersGuide_histogramStats.png "Histogram statistics")

While generating the histogram, µManager also calculates the minimum,
maximum, and mean intensities of your image. If you have enabled the
"Calculate Standard Deviation" option in the [gear
menu](#histogram-gear-menu), then the standard deviation will
also appear here.

### Metadata

![Metadata Panel](/media/UsersGuide_metadataPanel.png "Metadata Panel")

This panel shows various metadata about your dataset. The "Summary
metadata" section shows metadata for the overall dataset that is not
specific to any one image. The "Image metadata" section shows metadata
that is specific to the currently-displayed image. If you are using a
composite view mode, then the currently-selected channel is displayed.

By default, only metadata properties that have changed from one image to
the next are displayed in the "Image metadata" table. If you want to
view all metadata properties, click on the "Show unchanging properties"
checkbox.

### Comments

#### Comments Panel

![Comments Panel](/media/UsersGuide_commentsPanel.png "Comments Panel")

This panel shows any comments that have been included with the dataset.
"Acquisition comments" shows information that is not specific to any one
image, and "Per-image comments" shows information for the
currently-displayed image. If you are using a composite view mode, then
the currently-selected channel is displayed.

You can update the comments as you see fit. They are automatically saved
whenever you make a change. Comments are saved to an "annotation file"
that is stored alongside to, but separately from, the actual image data.
Thus, changing the comments will not change your image data (nor will it
change the "last modified" timestamp on the file).

### Overlays

![Overlays Panel](/media/UsersGuide_overlays.png "Overlays Panel")

This panel allows you to add overlays that will be drawn on top of your
image. Three overlays are available by default: a scale bar, a
timestamp, and a pattern overlay which may be useful for aligning your
sample with respect to your camera's sensor or for performing cell
counts. All overlays do not affect your image pixel data; they are
simply drawn on top. If you want to obtain an image sequence that
includes your overlays, use the [Export
Images](#export-images) dialog.

## Multi-Dimensional Acquisition

![MDA Dialog](/media/UsersGuide_mdaDialog.png "MDA Dialog")

The Multi-Dimensional Acquisition dialog is where you can set up complex
data acquisitions. It's Multi-Dimensional because the acquired dataset
can have multiple axes of acquisition: Time, Z (depth), Channel
(wavelength), and XYZ stage positions.

### Timepoints

![MDA Timepoints](/media/UsersGuide_mdaTimepoints.png "MDA Timepoints")

Specify how many timepoints to acquire. The "Interval" parameter
specifies the minimum amount of time between the beginning of each
timepoint in the acquisition. For example, if you specify an interval of
10 seconds, and the microscope is able to complete imaging a complete
timepoint in 7 seconds, then it will wait for 3 seconds before starting
the next timepoint. If the interval is shorter than the amount of time
required to complete a full timepoint, then the next timepoint will
begin immediately.

#### Custom Timepoint Intervals

If you click on the "Advanced" button, then you will be shown this
dialog:

![MDA Custom
Timepoints](/media/UsersGuide_mdaCustomTimes.png "MDA Custom Timepoints")

From here, you can manually specify precise times at which to start each
timepoint, or automatically create a series of constant- or
logarithmically-placed timepoints. Make certain the "Use custom
intervals" checkbox is selected if you want to make use of this feature.

#### Sequence Acquisitions

Many scientific cameras are able to perform high-speed acquisitions,
where the camera handles all timing details and operates at speeds
potentially orders of magnitude faster than normal. µManager supports
this functionality where available. If you have a camera that is capable
of such "sequence acquisitions", you can run a high-speed acquisition by
ensuring that the "Interval" value is less than the exposure time you
are using in your acquisition (for simplicity's sake, you can set the
interval to 0).

Sequence acquisitions are only possible if all of the hardware that
needs to change during the acquisition is capable of being sequenced.
Please see [Hardware-based Synchronization in
Micro-Manager](Hardware-based_Synchronization_in_Micro-Manager)
for more information.

### Z Stacks

![MDA Z](/media/UsersGuide_mdaZ.png "MDA Z")

Specify how many different "slices" to take of the imaged volume. Use of
this functionality requires you to have a Z stage. Each slice will be
taken at a different focus level in the sample, as indicated by the
"Start Z", "End Z", and "Step size" parameters.

The dropdown menu allows you to switch between Relative Z (pictured) and
Absolute Z. In Relative Z, the Start Z and End Z values are relative to
the *current stage position*. So for example, if you have focused on the
center of your sample, a start of -5 and end of +5 would mean a 10µm
stack centered on the current focus position. In Absolute Z, the Start Z
and End Z values are in absolute coordinates (as determined by your
stage device). You can use the "Set" buttons to set the current position
as either the start or end. Thus to replicate the same 10µm stack, you
would find your focus point, move 5µm up, click the "Set" button for
Start Z, then move 10µm down and click the "Set" button for End Z.

If you select the "Keep shutter open" checkbox, then your shutter device
will be left open during the course of the Z stack. This means that the
microscope will not have to wait for the shutter to open and close after
each image is collected, which can save time. However, your sample will
be exposed to more light, which may cause undesirable bleaching.

### Channels

![MDA Channels](/media/UsersGuide_mdaChannels.png "MDA Channels")

Configure the different wavelengths of light you wish to acquire. In
order to use channels, you must have created a special configuration
group (see [Config Groups](#config-groups)) called the
"Channel Group", which you should select from the "Channel group"
dropdown menu. To add new channels to the acquisition, click on the
"New" button; you can then change which specific channel to use by
clicking on the channel name in the table (in the "Configuration"
column). Channels can be deleted with the "Remove" button, and
re-ordered with the "Up" and "Down" buttons.

Each channel has its own row in the table, with corresponding settings:

1.  Use: enables or disables the channel in the acquisition as a whole.
    Unchecking this box is equivalent to removing the channel from the
    table entirely.
2.  Configuration: select which channel (from the available presets in
    the channel config group) to use.
3.  Exposure: set the camera exposure time to use when imaging with this
    channel.
4.  Z-offset: set an offset in microns to apply when imaging with this
    channel.
5.  Z-stack: if checked, this channel will be imaged once for each slice
    in the Z-stack (assuming Z-stacks are enabled); if unchecked, then
    only one image per Z-stack will be acquired, at the centermost slice
    position.
6.  Skip Fr.: skip certain timepoints with this channel. For example, if
    this is set to 1, then only every other timepoint will be imaged
    with this channel; if set to 2, only timepoints that are a multiple
    of 3 will be imaged; et cetera. This can be useful for channels that
    bleach easily.
7.  Color: set the color the channel will use in the image window
    associated with the acquisition.

If you click the "Keep shutter open" checkbox, then any shutter device
involved in changing channels will not be closed in-between each
channel. This means the microscope will not have to wait for the shutter
to close and open each time the channel is changed, which can save time.
However, your sample will be exposed to more light (with a
potentially-irregular distribution among the different exposure
wavelengths due to timing variabilities), which may cause undesirable
bleaching.

### Multiple Positions (XY)

#### MDA Stage Positions

![MDA Positions](/media/UsersGuide_mdaPositions.png "MDA Positions")

Acquisitions can be configured to visit multiple stage positions, as set
using the [Stage Position List](#stage-position-list). All
stage positions in the Stage Position List will be used.

### Acquisition Order

![MDA Acquisition
Order](/media/UsersGuide_mdaOrder.png "MDA Acquisition Order")

![MDA Acquisition Order dropdown
menu](/media/UsersGuide_mdaOrder2.png "MDA Acquisition Order dropdown menu")

Allows you to configure the ordering of the different axes in the
acquisition. You may choose whether you do every channel at each slice
before moving to the next slice ("Slice, Channel" order) or do a
complete Z-stack with a single channel before switching to the next
channel ("Channel, Slice" order). And you may choose between doing a
single timepoint at each stage position before starting the second
timepoint ("Time, Position" order), or doing a complete timeseries at a
single stage position, then a complete timeseries at the second stage
position, etc. ("Position, Time" order).

In other words, the leftmost axis changes the fewest number of times,
and the rightmost axis changes the most frequently. Depending on your
hardware and the parameters of your experiment, different orders may be
more desirable; the "Time, Position, Slice, Channel" order is most
commonly used.

### Autofocus

![MDA Autofocus](/media/UsersGuide_mdaAutofocus.png "MDA Autofocus")

If you have an autofocus device, it can be configured to activate at
each timepoint. If you set "Skip Frames" to a value greater than 1, then
it will activate 1 in every N frames (e.g. setting it to 3 means using
autofocus 1 in every 3 frames).

If multiple stage positions are enabled and autofocus is enabled,
autofocus will automatically be used at each stage position, regardless
of the "Skip Frames" setting.

You can click on the "Options" button to bring up the autofocus
configuration dialog.

### Save Images

![MDA Saving](/media/UsersGuide_mdaSave.png "MDA Saving")

Configure saving of data for your acquisition. The "Directory root"
field indicates the directory in which saved data will be placed; each
acquisition gets its own directory within that directory, named
according to the "Name prefix" field. To simplify running multiple
similar acquisitions, µManager automatically appends numerical suffixes
to each acquisition. For example, if your directory root is set to
"MyDocuments" and your suffix is "MyAcq", then sequential acquisitions
would be saved to "MyDocuments/MyAcq\_1", "MyDocuments/MyAcq\_2", et
cetera.

You have two file format options: "Separate image files" and "Image
stack file". The former option will save each 2D image plane to a
separate TIFF file, and create a metadata.txt file that contains
metadata for each image. The latter will save the entire dataset into a
single OME TIFF with bundled metadata. If the TIFF's filesize would
exceed 4GB, then it will be split into multiple TIFFs. Additionally, the
[Options Dialog](#options-dialog) allows you to save each
stage position in a separate file, and also allows you to force µManager
to generate a metadata.txt file even when using the Image Stack File
format.

### Acquisition Comments

![MDA Comments](/media/UsersGuide_mdaComments.png "MDA Comments")

You may type any extra comments here. These comments will be annotated
to the data set. This is equivalent to writing comments into the
"Summary Comments" section of the [Comments
Panel](#comments-panel) in the image window.

### Other Buttons

![MDA Buttons](/media/UsersGuide_mdaButtons.png "MDA Buttons")

-   Close: closes the MDA dialog.
-   Acquire!: starts an acquisition.
-   Stop: stops the current running acquisition. A confirmation dialog
    will be shown first. Note that the acquisition can only be halted at
    specific, defined intervals. In particular, acquisitions cannot
    typically be halted in the middle of a [sequence
    acquisition](#sequence-acquisitions).
-   Load...: Allows you to load an acquisition settings file. This will
    automatically populate all of the settings in the dialog based on
    the parameters in the file.
-   Save as...: Allows you to save the current acquisition settings to a
    file. This file can then be used later with the "Load..." button, or
    with the [Run Saved
    Acquisition](#run-saved-acquisition) button in the
    [Quick Access Panel](#quick-access-panel).
-   from Image: When a dataset is loaded that contains MDA settings in its
    metadata, pressing this button will load this metadata into the MDA window.
-   [Multi MDA](Multi-MDA): Makes it possible to combine multiple MDA
    settings in one experiment.  

## Config Groups

![Config Groups](/media/UsersGuide_configGroups.png "Config Groups")

Config Groups are groupings of related device properties. They provide a
conveniente way to change the state of your microscope in a unified
fashion. One common example is setting up a "channel group": a config
group used to change which wavelengths of light illuminate the sample
and are seen by the camera. This could involve changing such properties
as:

-   Which light path to use (e.g. for switching between LED and laser
    light sources)
-   What color of light to use, and its intensity
-   What filters to place in the excitation beam and emission beam

Manually changing each of these properties via the [Device Property
Browser](#device-property-browser) would be tedious and
error-prone; instead, you can create a config group that changes each
property together.

To create a new config group, click on the "+" button next to "Group".
To delete the selected group, click the "-" button. Existing groups can
be modified with the "Edit" button. Let's create a new group now.

![Create Config Group](/media/UsersGuide_createGroup.png "Create Config Group")

This window shows us a complete list of all properties for all devices
in the microscope that µManager can change (if you checked the "Show
read-only properties" checkbox, then non-modifiable properties would
also be displayed). As we are using the demo hardware config, the
properties shown in the above screenshot will not match what is shown on
real hardware. But let's create a config group that allows us to change
the test pattern produced by the demo camera. Normally, the demo camera
produces a straightforward sine wave pattern. Let's check the
"Camera-RotateImages" and "Camera-StripeWidth" properties. We also need
to name the group; call it "TestPattern":

![Create Config Group
2](/media/UsersGuide_createGroup2.png "Create Config Group 2")

When we click OK, µManager will ask us to make a new "Preset" for this
config group. A preset is simply some combination of settings for the
device properties we just selected. We'll use the current values as our
first preset; just name it "Default".

![Create Preset](/media/UsersGuide_createPreset.png "Create Preset")

If we look at the config group panel in the main window now, we'll see
our new config group:

![Newly-created Config
Group](/media/UsersGuide_newConfigGroup.png "Newly-created Config Group")

A config group with only one preset is not very useful, however, so
let's add another one. To do that, click on "TestPattern" to select the
config group, then click on the "+" button next to "Preset". This brings
up the dialog to create another preset. This time, we'll set
RotateImages to 1, and change the stripe width to .1. Name the preset
"Custom":

![Create Second
Preset](/media/UsersGuide_createPreset2.png "Create Second Preset")

Now our preset has two options:

![Config Group Dropdown
Menu](/media/UsersGuide_configGroupDropdown.png "Config Group Dropdown Menu")

Go ahead and try snapping images and using live mode with each of the
two presets. If you like, tweak the settings. When you're done, make
certain to click on the "Save" button at the top-right of the config
group panel, so that your config groups will be available the next time
you run µManager.

### LabelState

A special note: many filter devices have both a "State" and a "Label"
property. Typically the "State" is a numerical value indicating the
number of the current filter position, and the "Label" is a
human-convenient name for that position. Changing either State or Label
will correctly set the hardware. Therefore, it is strongly recommended
that \_only one\_ of State or Label (usually Label) be a part of the
config group. Doing otherwise will cause µManager to attempt to set both
properties whenever the channel is changed, which may cause slowdown or
other problems.

Using the demo config file, you can see an example of how a channel
config group should be set up by trying to edit the "Channel" config
group. It contains properties for the dichroic label, emission filter
label, and excitation filter label, but not the "State" properties for
any of these.

Finally, you should never set the shutter device state in a config
group. Let µManager handle manipulating the shutter device instead.

## Stage Control

![Stage Control](/media/UsersGuide_stageControl.png "Stage Control")

The Stage Control virtual joystick can be reached from the [Tools
Menu](#tools-menu), or by clicking on the compass rose button
in the main window. This window allows you to control the current stage
position, by clicking on the "&gt;" buttons. You can adjust the step
size corresponding to each button using the text fields at the bottom.
If you have performed a [Pixel
Calibration](#pixel-calibration), then you can use the
buttons to set default step sizes for the XY movement buttons of 1
pixel, a tenth of a field of view, and a full field of view.

Note that the current stage position is always displayed in the main
window, along the bottom:

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_mainWindowWithStagePosition.png" title="Main window with stage position indicated" width="600" alt="Main window with stage position indicated" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Main window with stage position indicated</figcaption>
</figure>

## Pixel Calibration

Pixel calibration refers to the process of determining how many microns
are imaged onto each pixel of your camera. It is used any time you want
to move the stage based on the current field of view; in particular, the
[Mouse Moves Stage](#miscellaneous-settings) mode, the
[Stage Control](#stage-control) virtual joystick, and the
[Slide Explorer](#slide-explorer) plugin all require valid
pixel calibrations to work properly.

You can set up a manual pixel size calibration by going to the [Tools
Menu](#tools-menu) and selecting "Pixel Size Calibration".

![Pixel Size Calibration
dialog](/media/UsersGuide_pixelSizeDialog.png "Pixel Size Calibration dialog")

This dialog shows the demo config file, which already has several pixel
sizes recorded in it. You can add new ones with the "New" button:

![Create new pixel size
config](/media/UsersGuide_newPixelSize.png "Create new pixel size config")

This works much like modifying a [config
group](#config-groups): select a new name for the pixel size
(the default shown here is "Res3"), indicate the pixel size, and then
select which device property or properties correspond to the new pixel
size. When those properties change, µManager will automatically update
the current pixel size. For the demo config, the only relevant property
is the current objective.

If you are creating a new config file, and thus do not have any pre-set
pixel sizes, then you will instead be shown a dialog like the one used
to create a new [config group](#config-groups), which we will
walk through now. For purposes of this tutorial, the pixel sizes built
into the demo config were all deleted instead.

![Create new pixel size
group](/media/UsersGuide_newPixelSizeGroup.png "Create new pixel size group")

Click the "Use" checkbox to select the device properties that impact the
pixel size on your microscope. We'll just select the "Objective-Label"
property. As with [normal config groups](#labelstate), we do
not want to add both the "State" and "Label" properties to the same
config group; they are redundant.

![Create new pixel size group
2](/media/UsersGuide_newPixelSizeGroup2.png "Create new pixel size group 2")

This creates a new pixel size config group; we can then add new pixel
sizes from here as before.

## Stage Position List

![Stage Position List
Dialog](/media/UsersGuide_stagePositionList.png "Stage Position List Dialog")

This dialog allows you to mark sets of stage coordinates and return to
them later, for example [during an
acquisition](#mda-stage-positions).

At the bottom of the dialog is a list of all of the stage devices that
µManager knows about. Clicking on the "Use" checkbox will enable or
disable recording their positions -- so for example, if the Z stage is
disabled, then only XY positions will be recorded.

Click on the "Mark" button to record a new position using the current
stage coordinates for all active stage devices. The up and down arrows
will re-order the stage position list.

The "Merge" button allows you to overwrite coordinates in a marked
position using the current coordinates of a stage device.

![Merge Stage
Position](/media/UsersGuide_mergePosition.png "Merge Stage Position")

For example, selecting the "Merge with XY current position" option would
cause the XY coordinates in the stage position to be overwritten by the
current XY stage coordinates.

The "Go to" button moves the stage(s) to the coordinates of the selected
position. The "Refresh" button updates the "Current" position
coordinates in case they have changed. "Remove" deletes the selected
stage position, and "Clear All" deletes all stage positions.

The "Set Origin" button sets the current stage position as the "zero
point" reference from which all stage coordinates are derived. For
example, if you set the origin when at XY = (100, 50), then your stage
position will be indicated as (0, 0), but it will be the same location
as previously indicated. Note that setting the origin requires re-homing
the stage, which can move it; be certain that this will not cause the
stage to "crash" into the objective lens or anything else. You will be
given a warning dialog prior to homing the stage.

The "Add Offset" button allows you to shift the position of the
currently-selected stage positions. You can use this, for example, to
correct for accidentally bumping the sample holder.

Stage position lists can be saved to disk and then loaded later using
the "Save As..." and "Load..." buttons.

Finally, the "Create Grid" button allows you to quickly create a 2D grid
of stage positions:

![Create Grid
dialog](/media/UsersGuide_createGridDialog.png "Create Grid dialog")

This can be useful for "mapping" large samples that don't fit into a
single camera field of view. To use this dialog, you must have set up a
[Pixel Calibration](#pixel-calibration).

There are two primary ways to use this dialog. The first is to center
the grid on the current stage position and just create a square grid. To
do this, click on the "+" or "-" buttons to set the size of the grid,
and then click on the "Center Here" button:

![Create Grid "Center
Here"](/media/UsersGuide_createGridCenterHere.png "Create Grid "Center Here"")

The second method is to set the boundaries of the grid by moving the
stage, for example with the [Stage Control](#stage-control)
virtual joystick. Click on the "Set" buttons to set the X and Y "top"
and "bottom" positions:

![Create Grid manual
positioning](/media/UsersGuide_createGridManual.png "Create Grid manual positioning")

The rectangle specified by these set points will then be "filled in"
with stage positions so that the entire region is imaged.

Both methods of creating a grid allow you to specify how much overlap
there should be between adjacent fields of view, by using the "Overlap"
field. Overlap can be specified in microns, pixels, or percentages.

When you click "OK", the grid will be created as a list of stage
positions:

![Create Grid result
list](/media/UsersGuide_createGridResults.png "Create Grid result list")

## Device Property Browser

![Device Property
Browser](/media/UsersGuide_devicePropertyBrowser.png "Device Property Browser")

The Device Property Browser, reachable from the [Config
Menu](#config-menu), allows you to manually control your
microscope hardware. It provides a complete list of all controllable
properties of each device in the microscope that has been configured to
work with µManager. This gives you a lot of power over the system;
however, this dialog is typically not very convenient for common use. If
you have properties that you routinely need to modify, you should
consider setting up a [config group](#config-groups) instead.

To control a piece of hardware, find its name in the table, and find the
name of the property you want to modify. Then simply input the new
value; values are set immediately. Some values are dropdown menus; some
have a range of allowed values (indicated by sliders). Some properties
are "read-only", which means they cannot be modified by the user; these
are typically used for general information about the device (like serial
numbers) or for readouts from sensors (like the camera CCD temperature
property in the screenshot).

You can toggle visibility of these read-only properties using the "Show
read-only properties" checkbox. You can also filter the list of visible
devices using the checkboxes at the top, to show e.g. only camera
devices.

The Device Property Browser is not automatically updated when device
properties are changed elsewhere in the system (for example, due to
changes to a config group). Click the "Refresh" button to manually
update it instead. It automatically refreshes itself every time you use
it to change a property value.

## Hardware Config Wizard

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_hardwareConfigWizard.png" title="Hardware Configuration Wizard" width="600" alt="Hardware Configuration Wizard" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Hardware Configuration Wizard</figcaption>
</figure>

The Hardware Configuration Wizard, reachable from the [Config
Menu](#config-menu), will walk you through configuring your
hardware to work with µManager. It has its own built-in documentation,
which will not be recapitulated here.

## Menus

µManager places some important functionality in its menu system. On
Windows and Linux, the menu bar is located in the main window. On OSX,
the main window must have focus for the menu bar to show the µManager
menus.

### File Menu

![File Menu](/media/UsersGuide_fileMenu.png "File Menu")

The File menu contains options for opening data files, closing open
image windows, and quitting µManager.

When you use the "RAM" option to open a file, the complete contents of
the file are loaded into memory. This makes access and analysis of data
quick, but it takes longer to load the file at the outset, and may use
substantial (indeed, prohibitive) amounts of system memory if you try to
load an especially large dataset. In such cases, you should use the
"Virtual" option to open the file instead. "Virtual" mode loads only the
portions of the file that are needed at any given time. Thus, loading
data is substantially faster at the beginning; however, if you need to
perform detailed analyses, µManager may end up re-loading the same data
over and over again, which results in a net performance loss.

The "Close all open windows" command behaves identically to the [Close
All Image Windows](#close-all-image-windows) button in the
main window.

### Tools Menu

![Tools Menu](/media/UsersGuide_toolsMenu.png "Tools Menu")

The Tools menu contains a variety of miscellaneous tools.

-   Refresh GUI: updates the user interface to reflect the current state
    of the microscope hardware.
-   Script Panel: opens the [Script Panel](#script-panel).
-   Quick Access Panels: access the [Quick Access
    Panel](#quick-access-panel) system.
-   Shortcuts: brings up the [Keyboard
    Shortcuts](#keyboard-shortcuts) dialog.
-   Stage Control: opens the [Stage
    Control](#stage-control) window.
-   Stage Position List: opens the [Stage Position
    List](#stage-position-list) window.
-   Mouse Moves Stage: toggles the ability to use ImageJ's hand tool to
    move the stage in the Snap/Live view. This is the same as clicking
    on the hand icon in the main window's [miscellaneous
    buttons](#miscellaneous-settings).
-   Multi-Dimension Acquisition: opens the [Multi-Dimensional
    Acquisition](#multi-dimensional-acquisition) window.
-   Pixel Size Calibration: opens the [Pixel
    Calibration](#pixel-calibration) dialog.
-   Options: opens the [Options Dialog](#options-dialog)

#### Options Dialog

![Options Dialog](/media/UsersGuide_optionsDialog.png "Options Dialog")

This dialog, reachable via the [Tools Menu](#tools-menu),
allows you to configure various aspects of µManager.

-   The "Display Background" allows you to select between a traditional
    black-on-white display mode, and a "Night" mode that has lower
    contrast and is more comfortable to use in darkrooms. Most
    screenshots in this guide use the "Night" mode.

<!-- -->

-   The Sequence Buffer Size determines how much RAM is allocated to
    transient image storage when performing acquisitions. See the
    [Configuration
    Guide](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide#memory-settings)
    for more information.

<!-- -->

-   "Create metadata.txt file" ensures that every data file that
    µManager creates will include an additional text file that contains
    all image and acquisition metadata. Without this option, if you save
    data using the "Image stack file" format, metadata will be encoded
    into the OME TIFF file, but will not otherwise be available.

<!-- -->

-   "Save XY positions separately" creates a separate OME TIFF file for
    each stage position in acquisitions that use multiple stage
    positions. Without this option, all images for an acquisition will
    be stored in the same OME TIFF file.

<!-- -->

-   "Ask for config file at startup" prompts you for a config file in
    the [Intro Dialog](#intro-dialog). If it is unchecked,
    then the currently-selected config file will be used by default.

<!-- -->

-   "Always use the default user profile" disables the ability to select
    a user profile in the [Intro Dialog](#intro-dialog).

<!-- -->

-   "Startup Script" is a Beanshell script that will automatically be
    executed when the program launches. See the [Script
    Panel](#script-panel) for more information.

<!-- -->

-   "Close app when quitting MM" will cause the program to exit when
    µManager is closed. If this is disabled, then when you close
    µManager, ImageJ will continue to run.

<!-- -->

-   "Enable debug logging" adds extensive additional logging to the
    program. These logs are stored in the "CoreLogs" directory of your
    µManager installation.

<!-- -->

-   "Delete log files" will automatically delete files from the CoreLogs
    directory that are older than the indicated number of days.

<!-- -->

-   "Sync exposure between Main and MDA windows" will cause the exposure
    time in the [Main Window](#main-window) and the
    exposure time for the currently-selected channel in the
    [Multi-Dimensional
    Acquisition](#multi-dimensional-acquisition) dialog to be
    synchronized, so that changes in one will be reflected in the other.

<!-- -->

-   "Hide MDA Display" causes acquisitions to not create an image window
    when they execute.

### Config Menu

![Config Menu](/media/UsersGuide_configMenu.png "Config Menu")

The Config Menu provides options for interacting with your system's
hardware. It provides access to the [Device Property
Browser](#device-property-browser) and the [Hardware Config
Wizard](#hardware-config-wizard), and also allows you to save
and load configuration files. "Reload Hardware Configuration" causes
µManager to unload and then reload the current configuration. Any time a
hardware config file is loaded, µManager's GUI is refreshed to reflect
the current hardware state.

### Plugins Menu

![Plugins Menu](/media/UsersGuide_pluginsMenu.png "Plugins Menu")

The Plugins menu provides access to various plugins that extend
µManager's capabilities in various ways. See
[Plugins](#plugins) for more information.

### Help Menu

![Help Menu](/media/UsersGuide_helpMenu.png "Help Menu")

The Help Menu provides access to support resources.

-   User's Guide: links to this document.
-   Configuration Guide: links to [Micro-Manager Configuration
    Guide](Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide)
-   Report Problem: allows you to submit a [Problem
    Report](#problem-reports)
-   About Micromanager: brings up a dialog containing some information
    about µManager.

#### Problem Reports

Problem Reports are a way for you to send detailed information about
malfunctions or errors in your system to the maintainers of µManager.
See [the
FAQ](Micro-Manager_FAQ#something-does-not-work-what-do-i-do)
for more information. Please note that the µManager maintainers cannot
promise to provide assistance to users who are not subscribed to their
support services.

## Plugins

Plugins are extensions of µManager's capabilities. There are various
types of plugins that are accessible in different contexts, but the
primary type of plugin is available via the Plugins Menu. This document
will not try to explain every plugin in µManager, but it will cover some
of the important ones. [Plugins](Plugins) has information
about more plugins.

### Pixel Calibrator

![Pixel Calibrator](/media/UsersGuide_pixelCalibrator.png "Pixel Calibrator")

In some situations, merely knowing the [pixel
size](#pixel-calibration) is not enough; you need to know
exactly how a portion of your sample maps onto the camera's field of
view, including rotation, scaling, and other "transformations". The
Pixel Calibrator plugin will determine what this transformation is by
taking images of your sample while moving the XY stage. Having a valid
pixel calibration is required in order to use the Slide Explorer plugin.

### Slide Explorer

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_slideExplorer.png" title="Slide Explorer" width="600" alt="Slide Explorer" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Slide Explorer</figcaption>
</figure>

Slide Explorer (reachable from the "Acquisition Tools" submenu of the
Plugins menu) is useful for "mapping" out large samples that cannot fit
into your camera's field of view, or for seeking out items of interest
in a sparse sample. In order to use Slide Explorer, you need to have
performed a [pixel calibration](#pixel-calibrator).

Slide Explorer will continuously move the stage and image the sample,
until the current view area is completely filled in. To guide the
exploration, you can grab the view using ImageJ's hand tool and drag it,
to expose unexplored regions. You can also zoom in and out using
ImageJ's magnifying glass tool or by clicking on the "+" and "-"
buttons.

When you are done mapping your sample, you can switch from "Explore"
mode to "Navigate" mode. In Navigate mode, clicking using ImageJ's hand
tool will move the stage instead of changing the view.

If you want to mark stage positions for more detailed imaging, you can
draw an ROI (Region of Interest) using ImageJ's various ROI marking
tools, then click the "ROI-&gt;Pos" button. This will generate enough
stage positions to fully-cover the ROI you have drawn.

Unfortunately, at this time it is not possible to save the data gathered
by Slide Explorer. You will need to perform an acquisition using sites
generated by Slide Explorer instead.

### HCS Site Generator

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_hcsPlugin.png" title="HCS Site Generator" width="600" alt="HCS Site Generator" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">HCS Site Generator</figcaption>
</figure>

This plugin (reachable from the "Acquisition Tools" submenu of the
Plugins menu) simplifies the process of surveying large samples like
96-well plates. It can mark stage positions for you, which can then be
visited using the [Multi-Dimensional
Acquisition](#multi-dimensional-acquisition) system.

Many different multi-sample systems are available, including both well
plates and slides. To change the format, select an option from the
"Plate Format" dropdown menu. You can also define your own format using
the "Create Custom" option, and then use that format via the "Load
custom..." option in the dropdown menu.

The sample display is interactive in two ways. First, if the "Select"
button is pressed, you can select wells or slides by clicking and
dragging the mouse. Only selected samples will have stage positions
generated for them. Second, if the "Move" button is pressed, you can
click anywhere in the display to move the stage to the specified
location.

µManager will create a rectangular grid of sites in each sample region
according to the "Rows", "Columns", and "Spacing" fields. There are
three spacing rules: the default "Equal XY" uses only one spacing value,
while "Different XY" lets you specify both X and Y offsets. Finally,
"Field of View" lets you tile each sample based on the camera's field of
view. Using this option requires you to have run the [Pixel
Calibrator](#pixel-calibrator) plugin.

"Site visit order" will determine the order in which stage positions are
listed and thus the order in which µManager will visit them during an
acquisition. The default "Snake" order travels to the right on
odd-numbered rows and to the left on even-numbered rows, minimizing
travel time. The "Typewriter" order instead always travels to the right.

When you have set the site grid parameters and selected your wells,
click the "build MM List" button to create the stage positions.

The "Calibrate XY" button allows you to set the origin (the position
indicated by (0, 0)) of the XY stage. "Refresh" will rebuild the GUI
after changes to the hardware.

Finally, the plugin includes an option to automatically set the Z
position of marked positions by interpolating between three in-focus
points you have set. Check the "Use 3-Point AF" checkbox to enable this
functionality. Then move the stage to three widely-spaced points,
focusing at each and then clicking the "Mark Point" button. This will
add the point to the [Stage Position
List](#stage-position-list). Once you have three in-focus
points in the list, click the "Set 3-Point List" button. µManager will
fit a plane through the three points, and use that to derive the
in-focus altitude of each point generated when you click the "Build MM
List" button. Once you have generated this plane, you should delete the
points from the position list so they are not used for imaging later.

## Quick Access Panel

The Quick Access Panel system allows you to create customized windows
that allow you to easily access the controls you need most frequently.
You can access the Quick Access Panel system from the Tools menu.

![Quick Access Panel
Menu](/media/UsersGuide_quickAccessMenu.png "Quick Access Panel Menu")

You can have multiple Quick Access Panels at the same time; select the
"Create New Panel" option to make new ones, or the "Delete" option to
delete one you no longer need. Below that is a list of all Quick Access
Panels -- there's only one in this case, named "My Settings". If you
want to save your panel setup for re-use or sharing with others, use
"Save Settings"; conversely, if you want to load someone else's
settings, use "Load Settings". Note that your personal Quick Access
Panels are always remembered from one session to the next, so you do not
need to use these options just to preserve your setup.

Here is an example Quick Access Panel:

![Quick Access Panel
Window](/media/UsersGuide_quickAccessWindow.png "Quick Access Panel Window")

This panel has buttons for snapping images, turning live mode on and
off, and setting the channel to either DAPI or FITC. To customize the
panel, click on the gear button, and it will expand the panel:

![Quick Access Panel edit
mode](/media/UsersGuide_quickAccessWindowEdit.png "Quick Access Panel edit mode")

In this mode, you can set the size of the panel's grid (the default is
3x3 cells), change the panel's title, and decide whether or not the
panel should be automatically opened when µManager launches. Finally,
you can add or remove controls to/from the grid. To add a control,
simply click on its icon in the bottom grid, and drag the icon into the
grid where you wish to place it. You can also pick up controls that you
have already added, and move them to new locations. If you want to
remove a control that's already in the grid, click on it and drag it out
of the grid.

The following is a list of some of the less-obvious controls you can add
to your panels.

### MDA

This opens the [Multi-Dimensional
Acquisition](#multi-dimensional-acquisition) dialog.

### Set Preset

Allows you to select an option from one of your [Config
Groups](#config-groups). When you drop this control into the
grid, it will prompt you for which config group, and which preset from
that config group, that you want to set when the button is pressed. The
"DAPI" and "FITC" buttons in the example screenshot are Set Preset
buttons.

### Run Saved Acquisition

Allows you to run an acquisition at the press of a button. You need to
have set up the acquisition beforehand via the [Save
As](#other-buttons) button in the [Multi-Dimensional
Acquisition](#multi-dimensional-acquisition) dialog.

### Run Script

Allows you to run a Beanshell script at the press of a button. See the
[Script Panel](#script-panel) for more information.

## Script Panel

<figure>
<img src="/media/UsersGuide_scriptPanel.png" title="Script Panel" width="600" alt="Script Panel" /><figcaption aria-hidden="true">Script Panel</figcaption>
</figure>

The Script Panel (reachable from the Tools menu) allows you to write
scripts that implement custom behaviors. You can use scripts to run
customized acquisitions, analyze your data, set up your hardware in a
specific way, and more. Scripts are written in the [Beanshell
programming language](http://www.beanshell.org/), which is a simplified
dialect of Java.

The main text editor area on the top is where you write your scripts.
You can run a script using the "Run" button (and, while it is running,
use the "Interrupt" button to attempt to halt it). Scripts can be
created, loaded, and saved using the "New", "Open", "Save", and "Save
As" buttons.

Below the text editor is a REPL, or "Read-Eval-Print Loop", where you
can execute Beanshell commands one at a time. For example, to snap a
single image in µManager, you can input the command
"mm.live().snap(true);" (without the quotation marks).

If you want to write your own scripts, you should read the API, plugins
and other documentation at [the µManager 2.0
index](Version_2.0). In particular, you can access the
[Studio
object](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
via the pre-set variable "mm" (for example, "mm.displays().show(image)"
to display an image), and you can access the [MM
Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html) via
the "mmc" variable (for example, "mmc.getChannelGroup()"). These two
objects are your primary access points for controlling µManager.

On the left-hand side of the Script Panel is a list of shortcut scripts.
Click the "Add" button to add the current script to the list; you can
then switch between scripts by clicking on them.

### Keyboard Shortcuts

Click on the "ShortCuts" button in the Script Panel (or select the
"Shortcuts" option from the Tools menu) to bring up the keyboard
shortcuts dialog:

![Keyboard Shortcuts](/media/UsersGuide_shortcuts.png "Keyboard Shortcuts")

This dialog allows you to run scripts by pressing keys on your keyboard
(assuming that you are not entering text into a text field). Click on
"Add" to add a new keyboard shortcut, which will add a row to the table:

![Keyboard Shortcuts
Adding](/media/UsersGuide_shortcuts2.png "Keyboard Shortcuts Adding")

The default action is always "Snap", but by clicking on that action, you
can get a dropdown menu of other actions you can perform:

![Keyboard Shortcut
Actions](/media/UsersGuide_shortcutActions.png "Keyboard Shortcut Actions")

This menu includes several built-in actions, as well as the scripts that
we added to the shortcut scripts in the Script Panel earlier.

Click on the row in the "HotKey" column and press the key you want to
associate with this action. From now on, whenever you press that key,
your script will be executed.

You can save and load your shortcut settings to/from files using the
"Save" and "Load" buttons. This is only necessary if you want to share
your shortcuts with others, as they are automatically remembered for you
by the program.

## On-The-Fly Image Processing

![On-The-Fly Image
Processing](/media/UsersGuide_onTheFlyProcessing.png "On-The-Fly Image Processing")

µManager supports the ability to manipulate images as they are being
acquired, through its On-The-Fly Image Processing system. This system
creates a "pipeline" of image processors during any data acquisition.
Images emerge from the µManager Core and are inserted into the first
processor; the output of that processor is fed into the next, and so on.
You can access this window via the "On-The-Fly Image Processing" submenu
of the Plugins menu.

µManager has four built-in processors:

#### Flat-Field Correction

This processor can correct for systematic sources of error in the images
output by your camera, by applying correction files you have generated
previously. See [Flat-Field
Correction](Flat-Field_Correction) for more information.

#### Image Flipper

Image Flipper can rotate and/or mirror images output by your camera,
which may be helpful for aligning them with the eyepiece or for matching
up coordinate systems with your well plates.

#### Split View

Split View takes a single image from your camera and cuts it along
either vertical or horizontal lines, assembling multiple images from the
cut result. This is useful, for example, if you have a setup that images
multiple channels onto the same camera field of view simultaneously.
Split View can do 2-, 3-, 4-, or 5-image splits, and you can layer
multiple Split View plugins to create both horizontal and vertical
splits.

#### Image Saver

Image Saver allows you to save data from any point in the pipeline. This
can be helpful if you wish to preserve the raw data of your acquisition
prior to performing any modifications to it.

