---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 TODO
redirect_from: /wiki/Version_2.0_TODO
layout: page
---

TODO list for 2.0. These are considered release blockers, unlike the
items in the [Version\_2.0\_Wishlist](Version_2.0_Wishlist).

#### Data API

-   Ensure that 1.4 blatantly and quickly fails to load 2.0 data files
    -   Add a metadata version that we check for so we can cleanly fail
        when loading future versions
-   Note: we are explicitly ignoring camera-provided metadata for the
    moment (will require modifications to the Core to tag these
    metadatas)

#### Profiles

-   Having to register again is wrong, probably. In general all settings
    that were in Preferences are "lost".
    -   This depends on if the first official 2.0 release is from UCSF
        vs. Open Imaging.
    -   More general problem with importing Preferences: how do we
        access the old Preferences node? org.micromanager.MMStudio no
        longer exists. See also [this StackOverflow
        thread](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/30464014/load-preferences-for-nonexistent-class)
-   Auto-select previous profile at startup prompt? Entire profile
    system is maybe unclear.
-   Add inheritance for user profiles from a central authority (c.f.
    remote login systems -- talk with Mark)

#### Viewer window

-   Image dimensions etc. move from main window to image window?
-   In fullscreen mode would be nice if we could shove the image over to
    make room for the inspector.
-   Multicam config file, 10ms exposure, start program, click "Live" in
    main frame (with no pre-existing image window) -&gt; tons of error
    spam
    -   Error message: "Error: this application, or a library it uses,
        has passed an invalid numeric value (NaN, or not-a-number) to
        CoreGraphics API. This is a serious error and contributes to an
        overall degradation of system stability and reliability. This
        notice is a courtesy: please fix this problem. It will become a
        fatal error in an upcoming update."

#### Miscellaneous

-   Scan through entire codebase for TODO tags and fix them if
    appropriate
-   Autofocus API needs some attention (remove use of PropertyItem and
    MMException?)
-   Merge against latest SVN
    -   NB that due to line ending changes, conflicts in multipage TIFF
        reader/writer couldn't be detected. Other files (MMStudio,
        ScriptInterface, MMAcquisition, ChannelControlPanel,
        DisplayWindow, MetadataPanel, FileMenu,) got "deleted"
        (improperly moved, I guess) and thus similarly couldn't detect
        changes.
    -   ASIdiSPIM and Magellan plugins are of course hopelessly
        nonfunctional.
-   Script panel is hard to read in night mode.
-   Wiki page for Netbeans setup needs to take into account Maven
    directory structure ("resources" and "scripts" directories need to
    be added to the "libraries" in project properties)

#### Testing

-   Be sure to test non-square images from time to time
-   Leave a Live display open for a few hours and see if the display
    "breaks".
-   Check for memory leaks
-   Try running acquisitions on 32-bit systems (in particular be aware
    of memory constraints e.g. with direct byte buffers)
-   Test on Windows
-   Test on older Macs and on displays with varying pixel densities
-   Test high-speed acquisitions

#### Plugins

-   Still have to select overlay plugins (e.g. Acquisition Tools -&gt;
    Pattern Overlay) from the Plugins menu before they become available
    in the overlays tab; this ought to happen automatically on program
    start.

#### Files

-   Ensure loading of 1.4 files works properly, with fallbacks for
    properties that aren't available but should be in 2.0 (e.g. display
    settings)
-   Test importing using BioFormats importer in FIJI.

#### Inspector

-   Autostretching and linking interact poorly -- autostretch should
    apply to the currently-displayed image.
    -   So make autostretch be a per-channel property, and modify
        ChannelControlPanel to only use the linked min/max when
        autostretch is not set. Requires adding an autostretch toggle
        button to each channel.
-   Option for centered text for scalebar (or different alignments in
    general)
-   Option to change size of timestamp (incl. font size)
-   Inspector window moves when size changes (want to keep top-left
    corner consistent)
