---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 Wishlist
layout: page
---

Things we'd like to do for 2.0 that aren't considered to be blockers.

#### Data API

  - Implement data processing pipeline.
  - Move comments out of image metadata and into separate file.
      - Have a comments history, with modifications tacking a new
        (timestamped) entry onto the comments rather than replacing the
        existing content (a.k.a. history is immutable)

#### Acquisitions

  - Remove MMAcquisition objects

#### ScriptInterface

  - Split up "compat" layer into sub-categories, and move those new
    sub-categories into new objects
      - Stage control (+position list dialog)
      - GUI (refreshGUI, snapSingleImage, more?)
      - Hardware config
      - Config groups
      - ...

#### General API

  - Expose classes/interfaces in the API:
      - MMFrame and MMDialog
      - MMScriptException
      - Various utilities (NumberUtils, JavaUtils, others?)
          - These should be exposed as new top-level "manager" types
            (e.g. "mm.numbers().foo()" instead of "NumberUtils.foo()")
  - Add colorblind-friendly section to the color picker (c.f. [this
    article](http://www.nature.com/nmeth/journal/v8/n6/full/nmeth.1618.html))
  - Replace MMException/MMScriptException with more descriptive (and
    non-custom) exceptions

#### Viewer window

  - Have instant feedback when a new display window is created, even if
    there's no images to display yet. Possibly optional? Important for
    MDA display where there can be a lengthy delay before any images
    actually arrive.

<!-- end list -->

  - Show pixel info display in both pixels and microns?
  - Add "zoom image to fit window" option and option for smoothly
    scaling images (i.e. not using ImageJ quantized zoom)
      - Should have a menu to select zoom level, turn on/off "snap zoom"
        (a.k.a. ImageJ zoom), etc.
  - Allow establishing display links by dragging the link icon to other
    windows

#### Miscellaneous

  - Be able to tag any MM window as being always-on-top (e.g. for stage
    control, device properties, main window, some specific plugin...)
  - Allow users to customize night/day colors
  - Easy keyboard shortcut for the "Copy to System" command (ImageJ's
    default copy shortcut is an ImageJ-specific concept that doesn't
    play nicely with e.g. Photoshop)
  - Add multiple look-and-feel options including a nighttime option that
    has dark buttons, table headers, etc.
  - Beanshell script to generate Z-projections of a dataset
  - Method for extracting specific fields from image metadata and
    outputting to a file (CSV, log, etc.).

#### Plugins

  - Fix up PixelCalibrator?

#### Inspector

  - MetadataPanel should show any property that has at any point in
    history (for this dataset) changed, not just changes from one image
    to the next
  - MetadataPanel should allow you to specifically select properties
    that should always be shown
  - Reduce size of hidden histograms?
