---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 Profiles
layout: page
---

Micro-Manager 2.0 includes a User Profile system, which is used to
remember user settings (like window positions, acquisition settings, and
preferred hardware config files) across multiple program sessions.
Whereas (on Windows) Micro-Manager 1.4 stored this settings information
in the registry, Micro-Manager 2.0 instead stores settings in files in
the user's home directory. To be specific, profile files on Windows are
located at C:\\Users\\currentUserName\\AppData\\Local\\Micro-Manager.
The "Profiles.txt" file in that directory contains a mapping of user
names to their profile files, e.g. telling you that the "Default user"
profile maps to profile-1.txt.

Multiple profiles may be used for a single operating system user. This
is useful for setups where there is a single "microscope user" on the
operating system, which is shared between multiple people. When you
launch Micro-Manager, you will be prompted for which profile to use, and
given the option to create a new profile. If you have separate operating
system users for each person who controls the scope, then you can simply
use the "Default user" profile; as each person has a separate account on
the computer, their "Default users" will hold separate settings.

You can also create a "global" profile which contains settings that are
shared across all users on the system. This profile must be accessible
to all users, potentially across multiple accounts; therefore (if it
exists) it is located in the Micro-Manager installation itself. For
example, if your install is at C:\\Program Files\\Micro-Manager-2.0,
then the global profile would be located at C:\\Program
Files\\Micro-Manager-2.0\\GlobalUserProfile.txt.

The global profile does not exist by default; however, you can create it
by copying an existing user's profile file (like profile-1.txt mentioned
earlier) into your installation directory. You may wish to make the
global profile file read-only, so that only users with administrative
access to the computer can modify it.

Settings in the global profile are provided as fallback options that are
used if a specific user's profile does not have the required
information. For example, if the global profile's MDA (multi-dimensional
data acquisition) dialog defaults to a 10-timepoint time series, then
the first time a new user runs the program, they would "inherit" that
time series as their default acquisition settings. However, if they then
changed to a 20-timepoint series, then in future sessions, their new
preference would be remembered, even if the global profile were to be
updated.

