---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 API Transition Guide
redirect_from:
  - /wiki/Version_2.0_API_Transition_Guide
  - /wiki/Version_2.0_Missing_Methods
layout: page
section: Learn:Version 2.0
---

One of the major changes in 2.0 is a restructuring of the API. In 1.4,
most of the functionality of the API was in a single module,
[ScriptInterface](/apidoc/mmstudio/1.4/org/micromanager/api/ScriptInterface.html).
In 2.0, the API has been subdivided, and some methods have been replaced
by new techniques for accomplishing similar tasks. This page runs down
the list of methods in 1.4's ScriptInterface and tells you how to
perform the equivalent task in 2.0.

### CompatibilityInterface, AcquisitionManager, Application, and PositionListManager

First, note that the
[CompatibilityInterface](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/CompatibilityInterface.html),
[AcquisitionManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/AcquisitionManager.html),
[Application](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Application.html),
and
[PositionListManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/PositionListManager.html)
modules contain many old methods from ScriptInterface, unmodified. These
methods work as they did in 1.4, and include the following:

-   CompatibilityInterface
    -   [getVersion](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/CompatibilityInterface.html#getVersion-)
    -   [versionLessThan](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/CompatibilityInterface.html#versionLessThan-java.lang.String-)
    -   getCameraTransform (deprecated, instead use: [core.getPixelSizeAffineByID(config](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#getPixelSizeAffineByID-java.lang.String-))
    -   setCameraTransform (deprecated, instead use: [core.setPixelSizeAffine(transform, config](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#setPixelSizeAffine-java.lang.String-mmcorej.DoubleVector-))
-   AcquisitionManager
    -   [attachRunnable](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#attachRunnable-int-int-int-int-java.lang.Runnable-)
    -   [clearRunnables](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#clearRunnables--)
    -   [isAcquisitionRunning](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#isAcquisitionRunning--)
    -   [isPaused](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#isPaused--)
    -   [loadAcquisition](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#loadAcquisition-java.lang.String-)
    -   [runAcquisition](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#runAcquisition--)
    -   [setAcquisitionSettings](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#setAcquisitionSettings-org.micromanager.acquisition.SequenceSettings-)
    -   [setPause](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/acquisition/AcquisitionManager.html#setPause-boolean-)
-   [Application](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Application.html)
    -   refreshGUI
    -   refreshGUIFromCache
    -   setExposure
    -   setChannelExposureTime
    -   getChannelExposureTime
    -   showAutofocusDialog
    -   showPositionList
    -   setROI
    -   makeActive
    -   getHideMDADisplayOption
    -   getMainWindow
-   [PositionListManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/PositionListManager.html)
    -   getPositionList
    -   markCurrentPosition (deprecated)
    -   setPositionList

You can access the CompatibilityInterface by calling the
[Studio's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
[()
compat](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#compat) method, the AcquisitionManager by calling the
[Studio's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
[()
acquisitions](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#acquisitions) method, the Application by calling the
[Studio's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
[()
app](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#app) method, and the PositionListManager by calling the
[Studio's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
[()
positions](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#positions) method. The Studio in turn is available in the BeanShell
window as "mm", and is provided to plugins when they are initialized.

### acquisitionExists

In 1.4, Micro-Manager maintained a registry of all "open" datasets
(a.k.a. acquisitions), using a unique string key for each one. In 2.0,
such a registry no longer exists. Any code that creates a new
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
(the 2.0 equivalent to a 1.4 acquisition) is responsible for holding
onto references to it, destroying it, recreating it, etc.

It is theoretically possible to find Datastores by way of their
[DisplayWindows](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html),
the windows that show images from the Datastore. You can ask the
[DisplayManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)
for a list of all DisplayWindows, and ask each DisplayWindow for its
Datastore using the
[getDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html#getDatastore) method. However, remember that Datastores are not
required to have any DisplayWindows (and also that it is possible to
have multiple DisplayWindows for a single Datastore). If you really need
your code to find a Datastore created by someone else's code, then
you should find a better way for the two components to talk to each
other.

### addImageToAcquisition

In 2.0, third-party code is responsible for maintaining its own
[Datastores](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
(the rough equivalent of 1.4 acquisitions), and can freely add images to
Datastores themselves using the
[putImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#putImage(org.micromanager.data.Image)) method.

### addMMBackgroundListener

This method was used as part of 1.4's day/night system for enabling
low-contrast displays for use in darkrooms. 2.0 uses a different system
that works automatically across the entire program; there is no need for
individual components to register themselves. Thus this method is
obsolete.

### addMMListener / removeMMListener

These methods allowed code to listener for code event callbacks by
implementing the MMListener interface, which is no longer in the API in
2.0. Instead, you can listen for events that correspond to each of the
callbacks (for example,
[PropertyChangedEvent](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/events/PropertyChangedEvent.html)
instead of the old propertyChangedAlert method), by using 2.0's event
publishing system. Remember to annotate the method that listens to the
event, with a [Subscribe
annotation](https://github.com/google/guava/wiki/EventBusExplained), and
to register your object for event notifications via the
[EventManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/events/EventManager.html)
accessible via
[()
Studio.events()](h/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#events).

### addToAlbum

The "album"
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
is now available via the
[Studio's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
[()
album](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#album) method, and you can freely add images to it yourself (see the
`addImageToAcquisition` notes above)

### autostretchCurrentWindow

You can now autostretch individual
[DisplayWindows](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)
using their `autostretch` method. Thus this method can be replaced by
calling `displays().getCurrentWindow().autostretch()`.

### clearMessageWindow

This method was moved to the
[ScriptController](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/ScriptController.html)
object accessible via the
[Studio's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
[()
scripter](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#scripter) method.

### closeAcquisition

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains responsibility for all open datasets. If you want to
clean up a
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html),
you must remove all references to that Datastore from memory.
Micro-Manager will not maintain open references itself except via any
[DisplayWindows](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)
you may have requested be created. You can close all open DisplayWindows
for a given Datastore via the
[DisplayManager's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)
[closeDisplaysFor](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#closeDisplaysFor(org.micromanager.data.Datastore)) method.

### closeAcquisitionWindow

See the notes on `closeAcquisition`, above.

### closeAllAcquisitions

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains a listing of all "acquisitions". Third-party code
can freely create new
[Datastores](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
and Micro-Manager will not be able to "see" them. Thus this method is
impossible to implement in 2.0.

However, if you just want to clean up the UI, then the
[DisplayManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)
has a
[closeAllDisplayWindows](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#closeAllDisplayWindows(boolean))
method.

### createAcquisition

You can request your own new
[Datastores](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
(the rough equivalent of 1.4 acquisition objects) via the
[DataManager's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html)
various "createDatastore" methods (e.g.
[()
createRAMDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#createRAMDatastore),
[createMultipageTIFFDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#createMultipageTIFFDatastore(java.lang.String,%20boolean,%20boolean)), and
[createSinglePlaneTIFFSeriesDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#createSinglePlaneTIFFSeriesDatastore(java.lang.String))).

### displayImage

This has been replaced by
[DisplayManager's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)
[show](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#show(org.micromanager.data.Image)) method. Note that this method creates a new
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
to store the image in. The old behavior of showing images in the
Snap/Live Window is no longer possible.

### enableLiveMode

This has been replaced by
[SnapLiveManager's](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html)
[setLiveMode](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#setLiveMode(boolean))
method. You should also be aware of the
[setSuspended](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#setSuspended(boolean))
method if you need to briefly stop live mode, only to resume it later.

### enableRoiButtons

This method was removed because it is unused by all known third-party
code.

### getAcqDlg

This method was deprecated in 1.4, and has been removed in 2.0.

### getAcquisition

This method was deprecated in 1.4 and has been removed in 2.0.

### getAcquisitionPath

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

You can access the save path for a Datastore via its
[()
getSavePath](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getSavePath) method.

### getAcquisitionImageBitDepth

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Image bit depth is now a property of the
[Image](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html)
objects in the Datastore, and is theoretically not required to be the
same for all Images in that Datastore (though in practice we do not
expect varying bit depths to work right now). You can get the bit depth
for an Image by asking for its
[Metadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Metadata.html)
(via the
[()
getMetadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html#getMetadata) method) and then calling the Metadata's
[()
getBitDepth](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Metadata.html#getBitDepth) method.

If you need to get a single image out of a Datastore, you can call its
[()
getAnyImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getAnyImage) method.

### getAcquisitionImageByteDepth

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Image byte depth is now a property of the
[Image](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html)
objects in the Datastore, and is theoretically not required to be the
same for all Images in that Datastore (though in practice we do not
expect varying byte depths to work right now). You can get the byte
depth for a single image by calling its
[()
getBytesPerPixel](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html#getBytesPerPixel) method.

If you need to get a single image out of a Datastore, you can call its
[()
getAnyImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getAnyImage) method.

### getAcquisitionImageCache

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

The Datastore functions as the equivalent of 1.4's image cache. You can
ask it for images using its
[getImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getImage(org.micromanager.data.Coords)) method.

### getAcquisitionImageHeight

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Image height is now a property of the
[Image](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html)
objects in the Datastore, and is theoretically not required to be the
same for all Images in that Datastore (though in practice we do not
expect varying image heights to work right now). You can get the height
for a single image by calling its
[()
getHeight](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html#getHeight) method.

If you need to get a single image out of a Datastore, you can call its
[()
getAnyImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getAnyImage) method.

### getAcquisitionImageWidth

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Image width is now a property of the
[Image](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html)
objects in the Datastore, and is theoretically not required to be the
same for all Images in that Datastore (though in practice we do not
expect varying image widths to work right now). You can get the width
for a single image by calling its
[()
getWidth](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Image.html#getWidth) method.

If you need to get a single image out of a Datastore, you can call its
[()
getAnyImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getAnyImage) method.

### getAcquisitionMultiCamNumChannels

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

In 2.0 this method is not available. You may try to replicate it by
comparing the number of channels in the Datastore (via its
[getAxisLength](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getAxisLength(java.lang.String)) method) to the number of unique cameras declared by the
[Metadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Metadata.html)s
of the various images (see
[()
Metadata.getCamera](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Metadata.html#getCamera)). You can iterate over all images in the Datastore
via the
[()
getUnorderedImageCoords](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getUnorderedImageCoords) method combined with the
[getImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getImage(org.micromanager.data.Coords)) method.

### getAcquisitionPath

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

The path of a Datastore's saved location on disk is accessible via its
[()
getSavePath](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getSavePath) method.

### getAutofocus

Use
[AutofocusManager.getAutofocusMethod](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/AutofocusManager.html#getAutofocusMethod)
instead.

### getAutofocusManager

Use
[Studio.getAutofocusManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio#getAutofocusManager)
instead.

### getBackgroundColor

As discussed in the notes for `addMMBackgroundListener`, background
color selection is now handled automatically. Thus this method is no
longer needed. However, if you need to manually set colors for the few
edge cases where colors are not handled automatically, you should
investigate the
[ApplicationSkin](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/ApplicationSkin.html)
module.

### getBackgroundStyle

This method was replaced by the
[ApplicationSkin.getSkin](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/ApplicationSkin.html#getSkin)
method.

### getCacheForWindow

This has been replaced by the
[DisplayWindow](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)'s
[()
getDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html#getDatastore) method.

### getCurrentAlbum

The Album Datastore can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
album](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#album) method.

### getMMCore

The Micro-Manager Core object can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### getROI

Use the
[Core's](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)
[()
getROI](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#getROI) method.

### getSnapLiveWin

This has been replaced by the
[SnapLiveManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html)'s
[()
getDisplay](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#getDisplay) method. You can access the SnapLiveManager via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
live](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#live) method.

Please note that the snap/live display is prone to being destroyed and
recreated. It is not recommended that you keep references to the
snap/live window in memory; request it anew each time you need it.

### getUniqueAcquisitionName

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Consequently, there is no need to generate unique acquisition names.

### getXYPosListDlg

This method was deprecated in 1.4 and has been removed in 2.0

### getXYStageName

This information can be accessed via the
[Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)'s
[()
getXYStageDevice](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#getXYStageDevice) method. The Core in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### initializeAcquisition

The metadata set by this method is now handled automatically when images
are saved; consequently, it is no longer needed.

### installAutofocusPlugin

AutofocusPlugins should now be compiled and annotated with the @Plugin
annotation (as described in
[MMPlugin](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/MMPlugin.html)).
If this is done and the resulting jar file is included in the
mmautofocus directory of your ImageJ installation, then the plugin will
automatically be detected at runtime. There is no mechanism for loading
a plugin after µManager's initialization has completed.

### isLiveModeOn

This method has been replaced by the
[SnapLiveManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html)'s
[isLiveModeOn](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#isLiveModeOn) method. The SnapLiveManager in turn can be accessed
via
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[live](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#live) method.

Note that if you just want to temporarily suspend live mode, to resume
it later, then you can make use of the SnapLiveManager's
[setSuspended](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#setSuspended(boolean))
method.

### logError

Replaced by the
[LogManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/LogManager.html)'s
[logError](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/LogManager.html#logError(java.lang.Exception)) method (and similarly for the variants on this method). The
LogManager can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
logs](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#logs) method.

### logMessage

As with `logError`, replaced by the LogManager's
[logMessage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/LogManager.html#logMessage(java.lang.String)) method.

### logStartupProperties

This method was removed as it is unused by all known third-party code.

### message

Replaced by the
[ScriptController](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/ScriptController.html)'s
[message](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/ScriptController.html#message(java.lang.String)) method. The ScriptController in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
scripter](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#scripter) method.

### openAcquisition

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

You can request new Datastores via the
[DataManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html)'s
various "createDatastore" methods (e.g.
[()
createRAMDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#createRAMDatastore),
[createMultipageTIFFDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#createMultipageTIFFDatastore(java.lang.String,%20boolean,%20boolean)), and
[createSinglePlaneTIFFSeriesDatastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#createSinglePlaneTIFFSeriesDatastore(java.lang.String))). If you use a file-backed
Datastore, then images will automatically be saved to disk as you add
them to the Datastore, though you should make certain to call the
Datastore's
[()
freeze](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#freeze) method when you are done to ensure that saving completes
successfully.

If you wish to view the images in the Datastore, use the
[DisplayManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)'s
[createDisplay](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#createDisplay(org.micromanager.data.Datastore)) method. The DisplayManager in turn can be accessed via
the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
displays](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#displays) method.

In any case, there is no need to specify the dimensionality of the
dataset ahead of time as was the case with `openAcquisition`

### openAcquisitionData

Replaced by
[DataManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html)'s
[loadData](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/DataManager.html#loadData(java.lang.String,%20boolean)) method. The DataManager in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
data](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#data) method.

### promptToSaveAcquisition

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Replaced by the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)'s
[save](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#save(org.micromanager.data.Datastore.SaveMode,%20java.awt.Window)) method.

### registerForEvents

Moved to the
[EventManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/events/EventManager.html),
which can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
events](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#events) method.

### removeMMBackgroundListener

As discussed in `addMMBackgroundListener` above, day/night changes now
happen automatically, so this method is obsolete.

### saveConfigPresets

While this method still exists (as part of the
[Application](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Application.html)
module), it now two parameters: a path string to save the config to, and
a boolean for whether to allow overwriting of existing files. The old
functionality that displayed a save dialog has been removed.

### setAcquisitionAddImageAsynchronous

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

As you now have complete control over adding images to your Datastores,
it is up to you to implement asynchronous image-adding if you need it.

### setAcquisitionProperty

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Arbitrary metadata storage is available for both
[SummaryMetadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/SummaryMetadata.html)
and individual image
[Metadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Metadata.html)
via their respective `userData` fields.

### setBackgroundStyle

This method was replaced by the
[ApplicationSkin.setSkin](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/ApplicationSkin.html#setSkin)
method.

### setChannelColor

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in. Likewise, you are responsible for keeping track of
any associated
[DisplayWindow](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)s
open for a given Datastore. However, for managed Datastores, you can
request all open DisplayWindows via the
[DisplayManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)'s
[getDisplays](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#getDisplays(org.micromanager.data.Datastore)) method.

Channel color is a property of the
[DisplaySettings](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplaySettings.html)
for a given DisplayWindow. You can create a new DisplaySettings with
adjusted channel colors (e.g. by using the
[()
copy](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplaySettings.html#copy) method), and then cause a DisplayWindow to use the new channel
color via its
[setDisplaySettings](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html#setDisplaySettings(org.micromanager.display.DisplaySettings)) method.

The above logic relies on you understanding the use of Builder patterns.
See [Using\_Builders](Using_Builders) for more information.

### setChannelContrast

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in. Likewise, you are responsible for keeping track of
any associated
[DisplayWindow](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)s
open for a given Datastore. However, for managed Datastores, you can
request all open DisplayWindows via the
[DisplayManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)'s
[getDisplays](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#getDisplays(org.micromanager.data.Datastore)) method.

Channel contrast settings are properties of the
[DisplaySettings](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplaySettings.html)
for a given DisplayWindow. You can create a new DisplaySettings with
adjusted contrast (e.g. by using the
[()
copy](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplaySettings.html#copy) method), and then cause a DisplayWindow to use the new channel
color via its
[setDisplaySettings](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html#setDisplaySettings(org.micromanager.display.DisplaySettings)) method.

The above logic relies on you understanding the use of Builder patterns.
See [Using\_Builders](Using_Builders) for more information.

### setChannelName

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Channel names are a property of the
[SummaryMetadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/SummaryMetadata.html)
associated with a given Datastore. You can access the SummaryMetadata
using the Datastore's
[()
getSummaryMetadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#getSummaryMetadata) method, make a copy with the
[()
copy](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/SummaryMetadata.html#copy) method, adjust the channel names to suit, and then cause the
Datastore to use the new summary metadata using the
[setSummaryMetadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#setSummaryMetadata(org.micromanager.data.SummaryMetadata)) method.

The above logic relies on you understanding the use of Builder patterns.
See [Using\_Builders](Using_Builders) for more information.

### setContrastBasedOnFrame

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in. Likewise, you are responsible for keeping track of
any associated
[DisplayWindow](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html)s
open for a given Datastore. However, for managed Datastores, you can
request all open DisplayWindows via the
[DisplayManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html)'s
[getDisplays](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayManager.html#getDisplays(org.micromanager.data.Datastore)) method.

This method is not available in 2.0. However, you can replicate its
functionality for a given DisplayWindow by combining the
[SetDisplayedImageTo](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html#setDisplayedImageTo(org.micromanager.data.Coords)) method of DisplayWindow and the
`shouldAutostretch` field of the
[DisplaySettings](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/display/DisplaySettings.html).

### setConfigChanged

This method was removed as it is unused by all known third-party code.

### setImageProperty

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

Arbitrary metadata storage is available for both
[SummaryMetadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/SummaryMetadata.html)
and individual image
[Metadata](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Metadata.html)
via their respective `userData` fields.

### setImageSavingFormat

When saving the contents of a
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html),
you must specify the format you want to use in the form of a
[Datastore.SaveMode](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.SaveMode.html).
Alternately, if you want to show the user a save-file dialog, then that
dialog will include a file format dropdown menu that they can use to
decide which format to use. The dropdown menu (and the MDA dialog's
save-files section) will automatically default to the format the user
last used to save files.

### setRelativeStagePosition

This functionality be accessed via the
[Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)'s
[()
setRelativePosition](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#setRelativePosition) method. The Core in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### setRelativeXYStagePosition

This functionality can be accessed via the
[Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)'s
[()
setRelativeXYPosition](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#setRelativeXYPosition) method. The Core in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### setStagePosition

This functionality can be accessed via the
[Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)'s
[()
setPosition](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#setPosition) method. The Core in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### setXYOrigin

This functionality can be accessed via the
[Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)'s
[()
setOriginXY](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#setOriginXY) method. The Core in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### setXYStagePosition

This functionality can be accessed via the
[Core](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html)'s
[()
setXYPosition](/apidoc/mmcorej/latest/mmcorej/CMMCore.html#setXYPosition) method. The Core in turn can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
core](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#core) method.

### showError

Moved to the
[LogManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/LogManager.html)
object, which can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[logs](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
method.

### showMessage

Moved to the
[LogManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/LogManager.html)
object, which can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[logs](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
method.

### showXYPositionList

For consistency, this method was renamed to
[()
showPositionList](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/PositionListManager.html#showPositionList) in
[PositionListManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/PositionListManager.html).

### sleep

This method has been removed. Use
[Thread.sleep](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/Thread.html#sleep%28long%29)
instead.

### snapAndAddImage

As discussed in the notes on `acquisitionExists`, above, Micro-Manager
no longer maintains records on any acquisition objects; you are
responsible for maintaining your own references to the
[Datastore](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html)
that your data is in.

You can replicate the functionality of this method through a combination
of the
[SnapLiveManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html)'s
[snap](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#snap(boolean))
method and the Datastore's
[putImage](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/data/Datastore.html#putImage(org.micromanager.data.Image)) method. The SnapLiveManager can be accessed from the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
live](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#live) method.

### snapSingleImage

Replaced by the
[SnapLiveManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html)'s
[snap](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/SnapLiveManager.html#snap(boolean))
method.

### unregisterForEvents

Moved to the
[EventManager](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/events/EventManager.html)
object, which can be accessed via the
[Studio](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html)'s
[()
events](/apidoc/mmstudio/latest/org/micromanager/Studio.html#events) method.
