---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 API Events
layout: page
---

This page documents the various events that the 2.0 API exposes, and
what you need to subscribe to to access those events.

### Global events

These events are posted to the `EventManager`. You can subscribe to them
via `mm.events().registerForEvents()`. The full list of Events can be
found
[here](https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-gamma/mmstudio/org/micromanager/events/package-tree.html).
Some examples:

  - DatastoreClosingEvent: a Datastore was closed.
  - DisplayAboutToShowEvent: a DisplayWindow is just about to show its
    GUI, which happens once there's at least one image for it to
    display.
  - NewDisplayEvent: a new DisplayWindow was created. This is posted
    before that display's GUI becomes available.
  - LiveModeEvent: Live mode was started or stopped

In addition to the above, the various events made available in 1.4 are
still present:

  - PropertiesChangedEvent: A Device Adapter has notified the core that
    at least one device property has changed. Note that not all property
    changes result in notifications; the adapter must be specifically
    coded to send them.
  - PropertyChangedEvent: As above, but for a specific property.
  - ConfigGroupChangedEvent: a config group has changed which preset it
    is using.
  - SystemConfigurationLoadedEvent: a new config file has been loaded.
  - PixelSizeChangedEvent: the pixel size has changed.
  - StagePositionChangedEvent: a Z positioner has moved.
  - XYStagePositionChangedEvent: an XY positioner has moved.
  - ExposureChangedEvent: the exposure time has changed.
  - SLMExposureChangedEvent: the exposure time of an SLM device has
    changed.

### Display events

These events are specific to a single DisplayWindow, and can be accessed
via `DisplayWindow.registerForEvents`. If you do register for a
DisplayWindow's events, then you should remember to call
`DisplayWindow.unregisterForEvents` if the object that is registered is
discarded; otherwise, the DisplayWindow will keep a reference to your
object, and errors may occur when the window attempts to send events to
it. DisplayWindow events can be found
[here](https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-gamma/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/package-tree.html).

  - DisplayDidShowImageEvent: A new image was shown in this display
  - DisplayPositionChangedEvent: ?
  - DisplaySettingsChangedEvent: Display settings (such as
    brightness/contrast) were changed

### Datastore events

These events are specific to a single Datastore, and can be accessed via
`Datastore.registerForEvents`. As with DisplayWindows, if you have an
object listening to Datastore events, and that object is discarded, you
should make certain to unregister it first. Javadoc for events posted by
Datastores can be found
[here](https://valelab4.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-gamma/mmstudio/org/micromanager/data/package-summary.html).

  - DataProviderHasNewImageEvent: Signifies that an image has been added
    to a DataProvider.
  - DataProviderHasNewNameEvent
  - DataProviderHasNewSummaryMetadataEvent: Indicates that new summary
    metadata has been set for a DataProvider.
  - DatastoreClearedEvent: Signals that all images have been deleted
    from the Datastore.
  - DatastoreFrozenEvent: Indicates that a Datastore was frozen and
    cannot be written to any more (but read actions can still occur).
  - ImageDeletedEvent: Signals that an image has been deleted from the
    Datastore.
  - ImageOverwrittenEvent: Signals that an image in the Datastore has
    been overwritten.

\<INCLUDE 2.0\_Sidebar text="😎"\>
