---
autogenerated: true
title: Version 2.0 Plugins
redirect_from: /wiki/Version_2.0_Plugins
layout: page
section: Learn:Version 2.0
---

This page provides an overview of how to write new plugins in
[Version\_2.0](Version_2.0 "wikilink"). While the basic concepts are
similar to how they worked in previous versions, important details have
changed.

## Defining a Plugin

Version 2.0 uses the SciJavaPlugin framework for detecting and loading
plugins at runtime. What this means for you as a plugin author is that
your plugin class must do the following things to be detected and
loaded:

1.  Its jar must be located in the mmplugins directory of your ImageJ
    installation.
2.  It must implement the
    [MMPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MMPlugin.html)
    interface, or one of the interfaces that inherits from MMPlugin (see
    the list further down the page)
3.  It must implement the `org.scijava.plugin.SciJavaPlugin` interface.
    This interface does not specify any methods (so all you need to do
    is add SciJavaPlugin to the list of interfaces implemented by your
    plugin class); it just marks the plugin class for later detection.
4.  It must have the `org.scijava.plugin.Plugin` annotation, with the
    "type" parameter matching the type of the plugin you wish to
    implement.

For example, if you want to add a new MenuPlugin to the Plugins menu,
then you would need to have a plugin class that looks something like
this:

```
@Plugin(type = MenuPlugin.class)
public class MyPlugin implements MenuPlugin, SciJavaPlugin {
...plugin implementation goes here...
}
```

## Plugin instantiation

In µManager 2.0, all plugins are loaded *and instantiated* when µManager
launches. This is different from prior versions, where plugins were
instantiated on an as-needed basis. You will know your plugin has
finished loading when its
[`setContext()`](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MMPlugin.html#setContext%28org.micromanager.Studio%29)
method is called. The
[`Studio`](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/Studio.html)
object passed as a parameter to that method provides the plugin with
access to the µManager API.

## Building a Plugin jar file with IntelliJ

To start running a new plugin, you first need to build a jar file of the
plugin and copy it into the Micro-Manager directory "mmplugins". You can
build this jar file with the command line tool "ant", but it is also
possible to do so completely with the IDE IntelliJ (and possibly
others). For these step by step instructions we use the "Example"
plugin, included in the 2.0 source code.

-   In the IntelliJ menu, select "File" &gt; "New" &gt; "Project from
    existing sources" and point to the "Example" directory. IntelliJ
    will find the sources, but no libraries. Select the JDK you want to
    work with, and open the project.
-   Select "File" &gt; "Project Structure" and click on "Libraries".
    Click on the "+" (New Project Libraries), Select Java, and select
    the plugins/micro-manager directory in your Micro-Manager
    installation (usually in C:/Program Files/Micro-Manager-2.0gamma).
    Also add ij.jar (in C:/Program Files/Micro-Manager 2.0gamma). This
    should allow you to build the code.
-   To tell IntelliJ to do annotation processing select "File" &gt;
    "Settings", then find "Build, Execution, Deployment" &gt;
    "Compiler" &gt; "Annotation Processors". Select the project name
    (Example) and check "Enable annotation processing", "Obtain
    processors from project classpath" and click OK.
-   Select "File" &gt; "Project Structure" and click on "Artifacts".
    Click the "+" and "Jar(Empty)". Name it "Example". From "Available
    Elements", select "Example compile output".
-   To build the jar, you can now select "Build" &gt; "Build Artifact"
-   Copy the jar produced by IntelliJ to the mmplugins directory under
    the Micro-Manager installation directory, and the next time you run
    Micro-Manager, your "Example" plugin should appear under the plugins
    menu (under "Developer Tools".
-   To start debugging the code in IntelliJ, select "Run" &gt; "Edit
    Configurations". Click the "+" button and select the Template
    "Application". Enter the following values:  
    Main class: "ij.ImageJ"  
    VM Options: "-Xmx3000m -Dforce.annotation.index=true"  
    Working directory: "C:\\Program Files\\Micro-Manager-2.0gamma" (or
    wherever you have MM)  
    Use classpath of module: "Example" (unless you changed the name)  
-   "Run" &gt; "Debug 'Example' starts ImageJ - Micro-Manager, and lets
    you stop at breakpoints in your code

## Types of plugins

µManager 2.0 has a considerably expanded number of plugin types compared
to 1.4, which are enumerated here.

### MMPlugin

This is the most basic type of plugin. It is not explicitly exposed
anywhere in the program, and thus should only be used by plugins that
want to be fully in charge of their behavior and create their own UIs,
largely independent of µManager itself. Be careful that your UI behaves
sanely when closed (or has no mechanism to be closed), as once it is
closed there will be no way to access it short of restarting the
program.

### MenuPlugin

[MenuPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MenuPlugin.html)
plugins are displayed in the Plugins menu. The
[http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MenuPlugin.html#getSubMenu()](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MenuPlugin.html#getSubMenu())
method allows them to declare where in the Plugins menu they appear, and
the
[http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MenuPlugin.html#onPluginSelected()](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/MenuPlugin.html#onPluginSelected())
method is called when the user selects their entry from the menu.

Most plugins are MenuPlugins. One good example is the RecallPlugin.

### ProcessorPlugin

[ProcessorPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/data/ProcessorPlugin.html)
plugins are used in the data processing pipeline, which modifies images
as they are acquired. They appear in the Plugins menu, under "On-The-Fly
Image Processing". A ProcessorPlugin is really a gateway to two other
objects. The first is the
[ProcessorConfigurator](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/data/ProcessorConfigurator.html),
which is a user interface that allows the user to configure how this
plugin should process data. This configuration is output as a
[PropertyMap](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/PropertyMap.html)
(effectively a key-value store). The second is the
[ProcessorFactory](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/data/ProcessorFactory.html),
which produces
[Processors](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/data/Processor.html)
based on the PropertyMap they have been provided.

This is a complicated mechanism, but the upshot is that a single
ProcessorPlugin can create multiple independent ProcessorConfigurators,
the configurations generated by those Configurators can be stored via
PropertyMaps and restored later (e.g. in later sessions of the program),
and each Processor is wholly independent of any others, allowing for
multiple independent image processing pipelines.

Example ProcessorPlugins include the SplitView and ImageFlipper plugins.

### OverlayPlugin

[OverlayPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/OverlayPlugin.html)
plugins are used to draw overlays on the image display window. They are
made available via the "Overlays" section of any Inspector window.
OverlayPlugins are primarily responsible for creating
[OverlayPanelFactories](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/OverlayPanelFactory.html),
which in turn create the
[OverlayPanels](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-alpha/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/OverlayPanel.html)
that are responsible for actually deciding what to draw and how to draw
it. Copies of each OverlayPanel are embedded into each Inspector window,
by way of the Factory.

An example OverlayPlugin is the
[TimestampPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/internal/overlays/TimestampPlugin.html),
with the corresponding
[TimestampFactory](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/internal/overlays/TimestampFactory.html)
and
[TimestampPanel](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/internal/overlays/TimestampPanel.html)
classes.

### AutofocusPlugin

[AutofocusPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/AutofocusPlugin.html)
plugins are used to perform autofocus operations, typically in software.
They are accessible via the autofocus UI in the main window and MDA
window in the program. They remain largely unchanged from prior versions
of µManager.

### IntroPlugin

[IntroPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/IntroPlugin.html)
plugins allow for some basic customization of the introductory dialog
when µManager is launched. They can specify a list of config files that
ought to always be available to users, and they can replace the "splash
screen" image with their own image.

### InspectorPlugin

[InspectorPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/InspectorPlugin.html)
plugins produce
[InspectorPanel](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/InspectorPanel.html)s
that are displayed in the Inspector window(s). An InspectorPanel is
simply a set of controls or informational displays related to the
currently active
[DataViewer](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/DataViewer.html)
or
[DisplayWindow](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/DisplayWindow.html).
Example InspectorPanels include
[HistogramsPanel](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/internal/inspector/HistogramsPanel.html),
which displays the histograms,
[MetadataPanel](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/internal/inspector/MetadataPanel.html),
which shows image metadata, and
[OverlaysPanel](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/display/internal/inspector/OverlaysPanel.html),
which draws overlays on the currently-displayed image.

### QuickAccessPlugin

[QuickAccessPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/quickaccess/QuickAccessPlugin.html)
plugins create tools that can be embedded into the [Quick Access
Panel](Version_2.0_Users_Guide#quick-access-panel "wikilink"). They
allow easy access to custom controls, so if your plugin has some simple
controls that you want users to always be able to access (and that don't
warrant a more fully-fledged GUI), you can use a QuickAccessPlugin to
create those controls.

More specifically, you should create a
[SimpleButtonPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/quickaccess/SimpleButtonPlugin.html),
[ToggleButtonPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/quickaccess/ToggleButtonPlugin.html),
or
[WidgetPlugin](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/doc-2.0.0-beta/mmstudio/org/micromanager/quickaccess/WidgetPlugin.html),
depending on how complicated the usage logic is for your control.
QuickAccessPlugin itself does not have any methods that get called when
the control is interacted with, so the more specific child interfaces
are necessary to do anything with the Quick Access Panel.

## Providing an API for your plugin

If your plugin contains generally useful functionality that other code
might want to call, it is a good idea to provide a stable programming
interface (API) for it. Since classes in plugin JARs are not usually
available on the classpath, you need to provide your API in a separate
"library" JAR, to be included in the classpath. Your plugin will then be
a wrapper around your library.

You can split the plugin and library in one of two ways:

-   Library = interface definitions only; Plugin = code that implements
    the interfaces, plus MMPlugin classes
-   Library = interface definitions, plus implementation code; Plugin =
    MMPlugin classes (thin wrappers that call the library)

If you use the latter scheme, it is important to make it clear which
interfaces (and, possibly, classes) are part of the API (to be
maintained stably to ensure compatibility) and which are implementation
details (which the library author can change any time). We recommend
following the MMStudio convention of placing implementation classes in
packages that contain "internal" as an item in their fully qualified
name.

