---
autogenerated: true
title: Visual Studio project settings for device adapters
layout: page
---

{% include Note text="This page applies to SVN r12232 and later." %}

Here are instructions for how to set up a Visual Studio project for a
new device adapter. For more details on how to write device adapters for
Micro-Manager, see [Building Micro-Manager Device
Adapters](Building_Micro-Manager_Device_Adapters "wikilink"). For
instructions on how to build existing device adapters in the
Micro-Manager subversion repository, see the page on [Building MM on
Windows](Building_MM_on_Windows "wikilink").

# Setting up a new device adapter project

## Prerequisites

See the page on [Building MM on
Windows](Building_MM_on_Windows "wikilink") for how to set up a
development environment for Micro-Manager, including Microsoft Visual
Studio 2010 Express SP1 and Microsoft Windows SDK 7.1. The following
assumes that those instructions were followed.

## Method 1: Building using micromanager.sln

1.  Open `micromanager.sln` (at the root of the `micromanager` source
    tree) in Visual Studio.
2.  In the **Solution Explorer** (usually at the left of the window),
    right-click on the **Solution** (at the top of the list), and choose
    **Add \> New Project...**.
3.  Choose **Win32 Project** (under Visual C++ \> Win32). Give your
    project a **Name** (this will be your device adapter's name, so
    avoid spaces and use alphanumeric characters, dashes, and
    underscores only). Set the **Location** to either `DeviceAdapters/`
    or `TestDeviceAdapters/` (in theory, it does not matter where you
    set this). Click **OK**.
4.  The **Win32 Application Wizard** will open. Click **Next**.
5.  For **Application type**, select **DLL**. Make sure to check **Empty
    Project**. Click **Finish**.
6.  Your new project should show up in the **Solution Explorer**.
7.  From the menu bar, select **Tools \> Settings \> Expert Settings**.
    Notice that three tabs appear at the bottom of the **Solution
    Explorer**. Click **Property Manager** (the rightmost tab).
8.  Find your project in the **Property Manager** list. Right-click on
    the project and select **Add Existing Property Sheet...**. Choose
    `buildscripts/VisualStudio/MMCommon.props`.
9.  Repeat the previous step, this time choosing
    `buildscripts/VisualStudio/MMDeviceAdapter.props`. Make sure that
    the two added property sheets are displayed under each configuration
    (Debug|Win32 and Release|Win32), with MMDeviceAdapter at the top (=
    downstream). These property sheets provide various project settings
    common to all Micro-Manager device adapters.
10. Now return to the **Solution Explorer** by clicking on the leftmost
    tab at the bottom of the **Property Manager**.
11. Lets add our first source files to the project. Right-click the
    project, and choose **Add \> Class...**, then **C++ Class**.
12. Enter a class name for your first device, e.g. `MyCamera`. Leave the
    **Base class** empty for now. After adding the class, close the
    **Add Class** window which reappears.
13. In my testing, the `MyCamera.h` and `MyCamera.cpp` files created in
    the previous step were blank - although I think they are supposed to
    contain a skeleton class implementation. In any case, how to
    actually code device adapters is beyond the scope of this particular
    page, so lets continue with the project settings.
14. Right-click on your project, and choose **Properties**. This will
    open the **Property Pages**. There are lots of settings here; we
    will first make the minimal changes to get a working device adapter.
    A later section of this page will describe some more settings in the
    context of a Micro-Manager device adapter.
15. Under **Common Properties \> Framework and References**, click on
    **Add New Reference...**. Scroll down and select
    **MMDevice-SharedRuntime** (not to be confused with
    MMDevice-StaticRuntime). Click **OK**. A list of True/False settings
    will show up on the right-hand-side of the window; the default
    settings are fine. This setting causes your device adapter to be
    linked to the common Micro-Manager device adapter library (built
    from the code in the `MMDevice/` directory).
16. Now we will edit some settings under **Configuration Properties**.
    When we do so, the settings are only applied to the build
    configuration and platform selected at the top of the **Property
    Pages** window. We only have one platform (Win32) so far, but we
    want the settings to apply to both configurations (Debug and
    Release), so choose **All Configurations** from the
    **Configuration:** popup menu (make sure you do this again if you
    close and reopen the **Property Pages**).
17. Under **Configuration Properties \> General**, set **Platform
    Toolset** to **Windows7.1SDK**.
18. Under **Configuration Properties \> C/C++ \> General**, set
    **Warning Level** to **<inherit from parent or project defaults>**
    (which should display **Level4** after clicking **Apply**).
19. Under **Configuration Properties \> C/C++ \> Precompiled Headers**,
    set **Precompiled Header** to
    **<inherit from parent or project defaults>** (which should display
    **Not Using Precompiled Headers** after clicking **Apply**).
20. By default, the device adapter project will only compile for 32-bit
    (the Win32 platform). To add the settings for 64-bit (x64 platform),
    click on **Configuration Manager...** at the top-left of the
    **Property Pages**. Select **x64** from the **Active solution
    platform** popup. Find your new project in the list. Click on the
    triangle next to the cell that says Win32, and choose
    **\<New...\>**. Choose **x64** for the **New platform**, and
    **Win32** for **Copy settings from**. Click **OK**. Now, in the
    **Configuration Manager** table, click the **Build** checkbox for
    your project.
21. That's it\! Write the code for your device class, and right-click
    your project and select **Build**. If all goes well, your device
    adapter DLL should be built as
    `build/Release/Win32/mmgr_dal_Example.dll` (or in the directory
    corresponding to the selected configuration and platform).

## Method 2: Building using a custom solution file

This option may be convenient if you are only working on a single device
adapter and want to avoid seeing a long list of projects (and waiting
for Visual Studio to process them). It also has the advantage that you
don't need to locally modify the `micromanager.sln` file, and can place
all of your device adapter files outside of the `micromanager` source
tree, if you wish.

The steps are basically the same as Method 1 (using `micromanager.sln`),
except that you will start by choosing **File \> New \> Project...**
instead of adding a new project to the existing solution.

Just before the step of adding a reference to
**MMDevice-SharedRuntime**, you will need to perform the following
steps:

1.  Right-click on the **Solution** at the top of the **Solution
    Explorer** and choose **Add \> Existing Project...**). (Make sure to
    right-click the solution, not the project. The solution contains the
    project. Alternatively, you can use **File \> Add \> Existing
    Project...**.)
2.  Select `MMDevice/MMDevice-SharedRuntime.vcxproj`.
3.  When adding the reference, if MMDevice-SharedRuntime does not show
    up in the **Add Reference** list, cancel the adding, right-click on
    your device adapter project, and choose **Unload Project**, followed
    by **Reload Project**. Then try again to add the reference.

At some point (usually the first time you build or close Visual Studio),
you will be prompted to save the solution file (`.sln`). Saving to the
default location (next to the `.vcxproj` file) usually works well when
developing a device adapter. Note that the build products are placed in
a `build` directory in the same directory as the solution file.

# Visual Studio project properties for Micro-Manager device adapters

Here are some notes on how project properties should be set for
Micro-Manager device adapters. They are organized analogously to the
hierarchy in the **Property Pages** window.

Note that the following assumes that you have correctly added the
`MMCommon.props` and `MMDeviceAdapter.props` property sheets (in that
order, so that MMCommon is upstream) to your project (see the earlier
section on setting up new projects).

## Common Properties

**Framework and References**: There should be a single reference, to
MMDevice-SharedRuntime (the static library containing the common device
adapter code in `MMDevice/`). The properties for this reference should
be as follows (they are the default settings):

  - Copy Local = True
  - Copy Local Satellite Assemblies = False
  - Reference Assembly Output = True
  - Link Library Dependencies = True (this causes the static library to
    be linked)
  - Use Library Dependency Inputs = False (True would link to the
    MMDevice object files instead of the library)

Advanced note: If, for some reason, your device adapter needs to be
built against the static version of Microsoft's C Runtime (known as
compiler option `/MT`), rather than the default DLL version (`/MD`), you
need to use MMDevice-StaticRuntime instead of MMDevice-SharedRuntime.
This is the case if you are linking against a third-party static library
(not a DLL import library, but a real static library) that was built
against the static C Runtime. See the **Runtime Library** property below
under **C/C++ \> Code Generation**.

## Configuration Properties

### General

**Output Directory**, **Intermediate Directory**, **Target Name**,
**Target Extension**: These are set by the common property sheets. Make
sure your project does not override the defaults.

**Platform Toolset**: To compile 64-bit code with the free (Express)
edition of Visual Studio 2010, this must be set to **Windows7.1SDK**.
This is what the Micro-Manager codebase uses.

**Use of MFC**, **Use of ATL**: Device adapters in the official
Micro-Manager repository do not make use of MFC or ATL, as it is not
available with the free edition of Visual Studio.

**Character Set**: This should not affect most device adapter projects.
For those device adapters that use the Windows Win32 API (discouraged
unless strictly necessary), it will determine whether the Win32
functions operate on char strings (**Use Multi-Byte Character Set** =
use ASCII and old-fashioned non-Unicode encodings) or wide char strings
(**Use Unicode Character Set** = use UTF-16). If it is necessary to use
Win32 API calls, it is encourage that the device adapter use the
versions of the functions with a "A" or "W" suffix, so that build
settings do not affect code behavior. Alternatively, the TCHAR mechanism
can be used to keep the code neutral with respect to this setting, if
care is taken when strings are converted to and from C or C++ strings
(char\* or std::string). We do not currently have any explicit support
for non-ASCII strings.

The options in this section cannot be set in common property sheets and
must be set correctly in each project.

### Debugging

Default settings should be fine.

### VC++ Directories

It is best to leave these at their default values, as modifying them
will just be confusing in most cases. Use the settings under **C/C++**
and **Linker** for setting include and library directories.

### C/C++

#### C/C++ \> General

**Additional Include Directories**: If you need to include third-party
header files, add the directory containing them here. Note that the
Boost C++ library (not all modules) is made available by default.

**Warning Level**: We prefer **Level4**. Choose
**<inherit from parent or project defaults>**.

#### C/C++ \> Optimization

**Whole Program Optimization**: **No** is recommended. Turning this on
can make it more difficult to interpret crash logs (hs\_err logs) or
crash dumps.

#### C/C++ \> Preprocessor

**Preprocessor Definitions**: The necessary **MODULE\_EXPORTS** macro is
now provided by the `MMDeviceAdapter.props` property sheet, so no
special settings are necessary for most device adapters.

#### C/C++ \> Code Generation

**Enable C++ Exceptions**: **Yes (/EHsc)** (the default) is recommended.
Do not turn on SEH Exceptions; see [this
page](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/larryosterman/archive/2004/09/10/228068.aspx)
for why.

**Runtime Library**: Use the DLL variants (the default). If you need to
link against a third-party static library that uses the static (non-DLL)
variant, you will need to choose the non-DLL variants here. Avoid this
unless actually necessary, because there is a small limit (128) for the
number of DLLs built against the static C Runtime that can be
simultaneously loaded. Make sure to use the corresponding variant of
MMDevice if making the switch (see above under **Framework and
References**).

#### C/C++ \> Precompiled Headers

**Precompiled Header**: We avoid using precompiled headers to keep the
project organization simple. Select
**<inherit from parent or project defaults>** (which is **Not Using
Precompiled Headers**), and remove any `stdafx.*` files from your
project.

### Linker

#### Linker \> General

**Output File**: The default setting should produce the `mmgr_dal_`
prefix if the common property sheets are included correctly.

**Additional Library Directories**: If linking to a third-party library,
you will need to add the directory containing the `.lib` files here.

**Link Library Dependencies**: Must be set to **Yes** (=
**<inherit from parent or project defaults>**) for the reference to
MMDevice to work correctly.

#### Linker \> Input

**Additional Dependencies**: If linking to a third-party library, add
the filenames (`.lib`) here.

#### Linker \> Debugging

**Generate Debug Info**: Best to set to **Yes (/DEBUG)** even for
release builds.

### Build Events

No settings required. In the past we used a post-build event to copy the
product (DLL file) to a different destination, but this is no longer the
case with the current build files.
