---
autogenerated: true
title: Who should use Micro-Manager
redirect_from: /wiki/Who_should_use_Micro-Manager
layout: page
section: Learn:Overview
---

## Q. Should I give Micro-Manager a try?

<span>**August 3, 2006**</span>  

If you like and use [ImageJ](http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/), or have
limited resources, Micro-Manager would be your natural choice: it is
free, integrated with ImageJ and supports a decent number of cameras and
other devices. Also, if you are new to microscopy you will appreciate
its simple and uncluttered user interface that makes it really easy to
get started. But if you do have a nice budget, or if you already use
another software package, you'll have to make a tough decision whether
to invest time and energy in Micro-Manager, or go with some of the
established commercial solutions.  

We think you should definitely try Micro-Manager if:  

-   you like ImageJ
-   you have a tight budget. Micro-Manager is free, including the device
    drivers. Commercial microscopy software packages can be pricey - you
    can easily buy another camera for the money you saved.
-   you like simple user interfaces without too many features.
-   you want to be able to extend and customize your application without
    restrictions.
-   you are building a new kind of microscope, the one commercial
    packages do not provide for.
-   you want to use devices that other software does not support and you
    are willing to write custom device adapters for Micro-Manager.
-   you are building critical imaging systems and like to be in full
    control of the software you rely on, i.e have access to the source
    code.
-   you are thinking of driving your microscope setup from Matlab (or
    other programming environment) in order to use image analysis to
    guide the acquisition process.

To determine if Micro-Manager can be useful to you right away, you
should first check if it has all the features you need by quickly going
through the [User's
Guide](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/MMwiki/index.php/Micro-Manager_User%27s_Guide).
If it looks like it doesn't do exactly what you need out-of-the-box, you
can let us know what features you would like to see in future or check
whether they are already in the works. You can also consider extending
the Micro-Manager on your own.  

Second, you should check whether your hardware is already
[supported](Device_Support). If not, contact us and express
your desire and we'll let you know if we plan to support it. If your
hardware is supported, you will still need to spend some time and effort
to configure μManager for your system. To get an idea of what it takes
to configure the Micro-Manager for your hardware setup, have a look at
the [Configuration
Guide](http://valelab.ucsf.edu/~MM/MMwiki/index.php/Micro-Manager_Configuration_Guide).  
