_pages/XCite120PC_Exacte.md, before:

---
autogenerated: true
title: XCite120PC Exacte
redirect_from:
  - /wiki/XCite120PC_Exacte
  - /wiki/XCite_120PC_&_Exacte
layout: page
---

## Lumen Dynamics XCite Adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Adapter for the [Lumen Dynamics](http://www.ldgi-xcite.com/index.php)
X-Cite® Light Sources

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Mission Bay
Imaging](http://www.missionbayimaging.com/mbimaging2010/Welcome.html)
(on contract from Lumen Dynamics Group)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows, Mac OS X and Linux

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

X-Cite® 120PC, 120PC Q and X-Cite® exacte

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">
</td>
</tr>
</table>

The Lumen Dynamics X-Cite® 120PC and *exacte* are computer controlled,
remotely positioned (liquid light guide) light sources for UV/Visible
microscopy applications.

The X-Cite® 120PC Q microscope light source provides rich spectral
fluorescence excitation with a uniformly illuminated field of view, the
convenience of pre-aligned lamps, 2000 hour lamp lifetime along with a
computer controlled shutter and adjustable iris.

The X-Cite® *exacte* microscope light source employs a DC-powered
mercury lamp coupled with Closed-Loop Feedback technology to provide
stable fluorescence illumination, for imaging protocols lasting from
milliseconds to days. With the [X-Cite®
Radiometer](http://www.ldgi-xcite.com/products-radiometer.php) or
[X-Cite® Optical Power Measurement
System](http://www.ldgi-xcite.com/products-xr2100-xp750.php), light
output can also be calibrated in absolute power units (watts), ensuring
truly repeatable fluorescence illumination for imaging experiments.

## Installation

Add the appropriate X-Cite device via the Hardware Configuration Manager

Set serial port timeout to 2000ms

Serial port settings:

-   BaudRate 9600
-   Delay 0
-   Handshaking Off
-   Parity None

### Exacte

When using the Exacte with a Mac download the FTDI drivers for the
USB-Serial adapter
[here](https://valelab.ucsf.edu/~nico/MMwiki/images/4/49/FTDIUSBSerialDriver_v2_2_8.zip)

On windows, ensure that you have installed both the USB and virtual COM
port drivers. To do this, follow these steps:

1.  Open Control Panel on your computer.
2.  Double click the “System” icon. If you do not see the “System” icon,
    change your view to Classic View
3.  Select the “Hardware” tab.
4.  Click the “Device Manager” button.
5.  With the X-Cite exacte plugged into your USB port and turned on…
6.  Verify in the “Universal Serial Bus Controllers” section that you
    see the “X-Cite exacte” listed without a question mark on the icon
    to its left.
7.  Verify in the “Ports (COM & LPT)” section that you see the “X-Cite
    exacte” listed without a question mark on the icon to its left.
8.  If either device has a question mark on the icon, insert your X-Cite
    exacte CD.
9.  Ensure you have administrator privileges, right click on the device
    and select “Update Driver…”.
10. Follow the on-screen prompts.

## Support

For questions or issues related to Micro-Manager and this adapter please
check the Micro-Manager listserv:

[<http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=micro-manager-general>](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=micro-manager-general)

For X-Cite® device support please contact Lumen Dynamics: Email:
<Techsupport@LDGI.com> Ph: +1 800 668-8752 (USA and Canada)

For bug reports please contact: [Mission Bay
Imaging](http://www.missionbayimaging.com/mbimaging2010/Welcome.html)

--[Jbutler mb](/users/Jbutler_mb) 22:11, 31 January 2011 (UTC)

Commit message:

Mention X-Cite XYLIS as requested by Excelitas

_pages/XCite120PC_Exacte.md, after:

---
autogenerated: true
title: XCite120PC Exacte
redirect_from:
  - /wiki/XCite120PC_Exacte
  - /wiki/XCite_120PC_&_Exacte
layout: page
---

## Excelitas (Lumen Dynamics) X-Cite Adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Adapter for the [Excelitas](https://www.excelitas.com/) X-Cite® Light Sources

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[Mission Bay
Imaging](http://www.missionbayimaging.com/mbimaging2010/Welcome.html)
(on contract from Lumen Dynamics Group)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows, Mac OS X and Linux

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

X-Cite® 120PC, 120PC Q, X-Cite® exacte, and X-Cite® XYLIS

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Example Config File:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">
</td>
</tr>
</table>

The Excelitas X-Cite® 120PC and *exacte* are computer controlled,
remotely positioned (liquid light guide) light sources for UV/Visible
microscopy applications.

The X-Cite® 120PC Q microscope light source provides rich spectral
fluorescence excitation with a uniformly illuminated field of view, the
convenience of pre-aligned lamps, 2000 hour lamp lifetime along with a
computer controlled shutter and adjustable iris.

The X-Cite® *exacte* microscope light source employs a DC-powered
mercury lamp coupled with Closed-Loop Feedback technology to provide
stable fluorescence illumination, for imaging protocols lasting from
milliseconds to days. With the [X-Cite®
Radiometer](http://www.ldgi-xcite.com/products-radiometer.php) or
[X-Cite® Optical Power Measurement
System](http://www.ldgi-xcite.com/products-xr2100-xp750.php), light
output can also be calibrated in absolute power units (watts), ensuring
truly repeatable fluorescence illumination for imaging experiments.

## Installation

Add the appropriate X-Cite device via the Hardware Configuration Manager

Set serial port timeout to 2000ms

Serial port settings:

-   BaudRate 9600
-   Delay 0
-   Handshaking Off
-   Parity None

### Exacte

When using the Exacte with a Mac download the FTDI drivers for the USB-Serial
adapter.

On windows, ensure that you have installed both the USB and virtual COM
port drivers. To do this, follow these steps:

1.  Open Control Panel on your computer.
2.  Double click the “System” icon. If you do not see the “System” icon,
    change your view to Classic View
3.  Select the “Hardware” tab.
4.  Click the “Device Manager” button.
5.  With the X-Cite exacte plugged into your USB port and turned on…
6.  Verify in the “Universal Serial Bus Controllers” section that you
    see the “X-Cite exacte” listed without a question mark on the icon
    to its left.
7.  Verify in the “Ports (COM & LPT)” section that you see the “X-Cite
    exacte” listed without a question mark on the icon to its left.
8.  If either device has a question mark on the icon, insert your X-Cite
    exacte CD.
9.  Ensure you have administrator privileges, right click on the device
    and select “Update Driver…”.
10. Follow the on-screen prompts.

## Support

For questions or issues related to Micro-Manager and this adapter please check
the [Image.sc forum](https://image.sc/).

For X-Cite® device support please contact [Excelitas](https://www.excelitas.com/omnicure-x-cite-inquiries).

For bug reports please contact: [Mission Bay
Imaging](http://www.missionbayimaging.com/mbimaging2010/Welcome.html)

--[Jbutler mb](/users/Jbutler_mb) 22:11, 31 January 2011 (UTC)
