---
autogenerated: true
title: XIMEA
redirect_from:
  - /wiki/XIMEA
  - /wiki/XIMEACamera
  - /XIMEACamera
layout: page
---

## XIMEA Camera adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Controls [XIMEA
cameras](http://www.ximea.com/en/products/scientific-cameras/) (and some
Olympus Soft Imaging cameras)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Marian Zajko

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

BSD

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

XIMEA FireWire, USB2 and USB3 cameras. Can also be used for XM-10 and
XC-10 cameras from Olympus Soft Imaging.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Supported MM version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.4.6 20110722

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Driver Needed:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

[XIMEA camera
drivers](http://www.ximea.com/support/wiki/apis/XIMEA_API_Software_Package/)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Installation

### Installation instructions

-   Download and install the [XIMEA API Software
    package](http://www.ximea.com/support/wiki/vision-libraries/Micro-Manager),
    during install **API** and **Drivers** section must be selected

(if you have previous installations of drivers for the XM-10 or XC-10
you might need to manually update the driver to the version in the
installed API Package)
{% include notice icon="info" content="As of Micro-Manager nightly build 20140908 (pre-1.4.19), XIMEA API (beta) 4.01.76 is required.<br />As of Micro-Manager 1.4.21, XIMEA API 4.04.00 is required.<br />As of nightly build 20151015 (pre-1.4.23), XIMEA API (beta) 4.05.58 is required." %}

-   Copy XIMEA\\API\\x64\\m3apiX64.dll (just take xiapi64.dll and rename
    it to m3apiX64.dll)from the installed XIMEA API Software Package to
    the μManager root folder.

{% include notice icon="info" content="As of nightly builds starting 20180404, no longer rename xiapi64.dll.  Just copy that file to the Micro-Manager directory." %}
{% include notice icon="info" content="As of nightly builds starting 20180404, the
naming scheme of the camera has been changed. If your configuration file
stops working, you may need to open it in a text editor, find a line
that looks like: `Device,FastCam,XIMEACamera, 9652450`, and replace the
space in front of the camera number with a `0`, resulting in:
`Device,FastCam,XIMEACamera,09652450`." %} {% include notice icon="info" content="As
of nightly builds starting 20180404, changes were made to property
names. Your configuration file may stop working, but can probably be
easily fixed. For instance, I had to change `Mono 12` to `Mono16` to get
my configuration file to work again." %}

-   Connect the camera to the computer

Create hardware configuration for the camera:

-   After starting Micro-Manager, open the Tools menu, continue to
    Hardware Configuration Wizard...
-   In the "Select the configuration file" window select existing file
    where the camera should be added or create new file by clicking Next
-   In the "Add or remove devices" window click on Add
-   In the "Add device" window select ximea, and pick the device. When
    requrested "Please type in the new device name" click OK, the camera
    serial number will be used as device name, click Done.
-   After returning to the "Add or remove devices" window click on Next.
-   In the "Edit pre-initialisation settings" window click on Next
-   In the "Setup Serial ports" window click on Next.
-   In the "The following peripherals have been discovered" window click
    on Next.
-   In the "Edit peripheral device pre-initialization settings" window
    click on Next.
-   In the "Select default devices" window choose the added camera as
    default camera, click on Next.
-   In the "Set delays for devices without synchronisation capabilities"
    window click on Next.
-   In the "Select devices to synchronize with image acquisition" window
    click on Next.
-   In the "Define position labels for state devices" window click on
    Next.
-   In the "Save configuration" window click "Finish".

You can now use the camera in Micro-Manager.

## Properties

To edit camera properties open the "Tools" menu and select
"Device/Property Browser". The following camera settings are available:

### Default parameters

-   CameraID : Camera serial number.
-   CameraName : Camera model name.
-   Binning : Set camera binning. Can be also set from Micro-Manager
    GUI.
-   Bad pixel correction : Enable correction of bad pixels.
-   Auto exposure/gain : Enable/disable automatic exposure/gain.
-   AEAG Exposure limit : Maximum limit of exposure in AEAG procedure.
-   AEAG Exposure priority : Exposure priority during AEAG (default
    0.5 - exposure 50%, gain 50%).
-   AEAG Gain limit : Maximum limit of gain in AEAG procedure.
-   AEAG Intensity level : Average intensity of output signal AEAG
    should achieve(in %).
-   Data format : Output image format
-   Description : Camera interface type.
-   GPI port 1-4 : Set camera inputs.
-   GPO port 1-4 : Set camera outputs.
-   Gain : Set camera gain.
-   High Dynamic Range : Enable HDR image capture. Currently in Alpha
    implementation stage.
-   High Dynamic Range ratio : High Dynamic Range ratio (long exposure
    time / short exposure time, total exposure time = short + long).
    Currently in Alpha implementation stage.
-   TimeoutMs : Set acquisition timeout in milliseconds.
-   Trigger mode : Set trigger signal type.
-   Sensor Taps : Set number of sensor taps for data readout.

<!-- -->

-   TransposeCorrection : Not supported.
-   TransposeMirrorX : Not supported.
-   TransposeMirrorY : Not supported.
-   TransposeXY : Not supported.

### Cooling parameters

These parameters are available only for cooled cameras:

-   Cooling : Enable/disable camera cooling.
-   Cooling - Chip temperature : Camera chip temperature.
-   Cooling - Housing temperature : Camera housing temperature.
-   Cooling - Target temperature : Chip target temperature for cooling,
    used when cooling is active.

### Colour correction parameters

These parameters are available only for color cameras:

-   Coolor corr. matrix : Set colour correction matrix for RGB32 image
    format.
-   White ballance blue : Set white balance blue coefficient.
-   White ballance green : Set white balance green coefficient.
-   White ballance red : Set white balance red coefficient.
-   Gamma C : Set chromaticity gamma.
-   Gamma Y : Set luminosity gamma.
-   Sharpness : Set image sharpness Strenght.

## Resources

### XIMEA support

For contacting XIMEA product support regarding any questions or issues,
visit [online support](http://www.ximea.com/support/).

{% include Listserv_Search text="XIMEA" %}
