---
autogenerated: true
title: Yokogawa CSUX
redirect_from:
  - /wiki/Yokogawa_CSUX
  - /wiki/CSUX
layout: page
---

## Yokogawa CSUX adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Controls Yokogawa CSUX (all models)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows, Mac OS X and linux (serial port)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Yokogawa CSUX Hub, Filter Wheel, Dichroic, Shutter, DriveSpeed

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Micro-Manager version:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

1.2.11

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1" valign=top>

**Serial port settings:**

</td>
<td markdown="1" valign=top>

|                     |        |
|---------------------|--------|
| AnswerTimeout       | 8000   |
| BaudRate            | 115200 |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0      |
| Handshaking         | Off    |
| Parity              | None   |
| StopBits            | 1      |

</td>
</tr>
</table>

This adapter interfaces to the [Yokogawa](http://www.yokogawa.com/)
[CSUX](http://www.yokogawa.com/scanner/products/csuX1e.htm) family of
spinning disk confocal scanheads. There is no additional software
needed. Connect the CSUX controller to an available serial port on your
computer. You will need to define the *Hub* device, and assign the
correct serial port to it.

The CSUX can have up to 2 filter wheels. If you have only one, use the
default number (1) for your filter wheel. DriveSpeed has a property
called 'AutoAdjust'. You can enter here the exposure time (in
milliseconds) you are using. The scanhead will then calculate a disk
speed at which you will get a integral number of disk rotations during
that exposure. This can help reduce artefacts in your image. If you
change the disk speed using other controls, the value for this property
will go back to 0.

{% include notice icon="info" content="After changing drive speed,
the software will wait until the speed is within \~5% of its final
target. Use the `Refresh` button to get the correct speed." %}

As of version 1.3.38, MIcro-Manager supports the bright field bypass
option. There is no support for the second camera port option (although
control can easily be added by anyone having access to such a
scan-head).

If you experience a very uneven field of illumination in the CSUX,
please check out
[CSU-X\_fiber\_rotation](CSU-X_fiber_rotation) page.

The CSU-X1 requires a null modem cable.

[Discussion page](/talk/Yokogawa_CSUX) for Yokogawa_CSUX imported from old wiki
