---
autogenerated: true
title: ZeissCAN29
redirect_from: /wiki/ZeissCAN29
layout: page
---

## Zeiss CAN29 adapter

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Summary:**

</td>
<td markdown="1" valign="top">

Controls Zeiss microscopes that use the *CAN29* protocol
(AxioObserver/Imager D1 and Z1)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Author:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Nico Stuurman

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**License:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

LGPL

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

**Platforms:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Windows, Mac OS X and linux (serial port)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1" valign="top">

**Devices:**

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Scope, Shutter (external and internal), Reflectorturret, SideportTurret,
ObjectiveTurret, Excitation Lamp Switcher, Halogenlamp, Z-drive,
XY-Stage, Condenser, Field and Aperture Diaphragms. (since 1.3.40)
Definite Focus, Colibri.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="1" valign=top>

**Default serial port settings:**

</td>
<td markdown="1" valign=top>

|                     |       |
|---------------------|-------|
| AnswerTimeout       | 500   |
| BaudRate            | 57600 |
| DelayBetweenCharsMs | 0     |
| Handshaking         | Off   |
| Parity              | None  |
| StopBits            | 1     |

</table>

This adapter controls Zeiss microscopes that use the CAN29 bus
interface. The adapter directly communicates to the microscope through
the serial port (i.e., it does not use the MTB library provided by
Zeiss) and therefore works on all platforms. No additional software is
needed. USB and ethernet communication is not (yet) supported.

Zeiss microscopes require a female-to-female null-modem cable for RS-232
communication.

You will need to define all hardware that is part of your microscope in
the Hardware Configuration Wizard (i.e., Micro-Manager does not query
the microscope itself for devices present). In any case, you will need
to define the 'ZeissScope' device as this defines the serial port to
which the scope is attached. Most labels (reflectors, objectives,
sideport) will be read from the controller, so you do not need to set
those in the Hardware Config Wizard.

The Zeiss AxioObserver has a few features that are meant to make
operating the microscope nicer, but that interfere with software control
of the microscope. They are: <b>Light Manager</b> and <b>Dazzle
Protect</b>. Both of these features should be switched off when using
Micro-Manager with the microscope, or unexpected things (like shutters
opening and closing when moving the reflector turret) will happen.

Since version 1.3.40 there is support for the Colibri LED illuminator
and the Definite Focus autofocus device. The <b>Colibri</b> appears as a
shutter device in Micro-Manager. If you do not want to use a given LED
(the Colibri has four), set its intensity to 0. You can make different
configuration presets with different (combinations of) LEDs. The Colibri
"Shutter" property determines whether the LEDs or the external shutter
will be used.

The <b>Definite Focus</b> adapter has the important property "Focus
Method". Set this to "Measure" and pressing the autofocus button in the
front panel will train the Definite Focus to find this specific focal
plane. Set this to "Apply" and pressing the autofocus button in the
front panel will activate the Definite Focus (once) to return to the
previously specified focal plane. Measuring the focal plane takes a long
time, therefore please set the property Core-Timeout to 25,000 ms. If
you want to acquire multiple XY-positions and use different working
positions for the Definite Focus at each of these, then you will need to
include the ZeissDefiniteFocusOffset adapter in your configuration. This
device will appear as a stage device in the Position List dialogue (make
sure that its property "Autofocus Device" is set to your Definite
Focus). For each position, first train the Definite Focus (use the
"Focus Method" "Measure" and press the autofocus button in the main
window), then Mark the position. Before running the Multi-Dimensional
Acquisition, set the "Focus Method" to "Apply".

An MCU 28 controller connected to the microscope stand cannot currently
be controlled by the ZeissCAN29 device adapter. See the
[ZeissCAN](ZeissCAN "wikilink") adapter for controlling an MCU 28 that
is directly connected to the computer using a serial cable (only XY
stage is supported).

{% include Listserv_Search text="Zeiss" %}

