_pages/editing/index.md, before:

---
title: Editing the Wiki
layout: page
section: Support:Editing the Wiki
nav-links: true
nav-title: Introduction
---

This page explains how to write and edit wiki pages. The simplest way to create
or modify a page is using GitHub's online file editor. Each page has an "Edit
page" link at the top right with a direct link to this interface.

{% include notice icon="tech" content="Advanced users can make edits via a local clone of the site repository; see the [advanced editing guide](/editing/advanced) for setup instructions." %}

# Creating a new page

Let's dive in to how to create a new page on the site.
If you are looking to edit an existing page, skip to
[adding and editing page content](#adding-and-editing-page-content) below.

1.  Navigate to the
    [pages section](https://github.com/imagej/imagej.github.io/tree/main/_pages)
    of the repository.
    Click {% include button label="Add file" %} then
    {% include button label="Create new file" %} from the drop-down:

    {% include img align="center" src="help/create-page-etw" %}

2.  Add a name for your file. **Note: this is not the page title;** the page
    title will be applied in the next section, front matter. File names should
    be all lower case, use the file extension `.md`, avoid symbols and spaces,
    and separate words using dashes (`-`):

    {% include img align="center" src="help/name-your-file" style="border: 1px solid #aaa" %}

## Front matter

Every page begins with a block of *front matter*: a sequence of parameters that
configure your page. Without the front matter, your page will not render
correctly. The following table lists front matter fields you can use:

|       **Field** | **Purpose** |
|----------------:|:------------|
|       **title** | The title of your page. This is the only required field. |
| **description** | A short description of your page. Also used for the site's search engine. When omitted, the first sentence of the page content is used. |
|     **section** | Main menu section that should be open when this page first loads, if any. Nested sections to expand should be separated by colons (`:`). For example, this page's section is `Help:Editing the Wiki`. |
|  **categories** | List of categories to which the page belongs. Must be enclosed in square brackets (`[` and `]`). |
|       *statbox* | The "Vital statistics" sidebar supports quite a few fields; see [this comment](https://github.com/imagej/imagej.github.io/blob/main/_includes/statbox#L30-L72) for a list. Including at least one of these fields will cause the statbox to appear; otherwise, there will be no statbox for the page. |

Below is a minimal example front matter block. You can copy and paste this code
into the editor of a new page (see above). Replace `My Awesome Page` with the
title for the new page.

```
---
title: My Awesome Page
---
```

# Adding and editing page content

This section covers how to populate the *content* of your page.

## Markdown

{% include wikipedia title="Markdown" %} is plain-text syntax formatting,
allowing you to easily and cleanly modify text with italics, bold, ordered
or bulleted lists, etc. This wiki uses
[GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) (GFM);
a basic GFM guide can be found
[here](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

Here are some common kinds of text formatting:

| Formatting                               | Markup                                     |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| *italic text*                            | `*italic text*`                            |
| **bold text**                            | `**bold text**`                            |
| ***bold and italic text***               | `***bold and italic text***`               |
| `fixed width text/code`                  | <code>`fixed width text/code`</code>       |
| ~~struck-out text~~                      | `~~struck-out text~~`                      |
| [Hyperlink](https://example.com/)        | `[Hyperlink](https://example.com/)`        |
| <span style="color: red">red text</span> | `<span style="color: red">red text</span>` |

Note that the last example, colored text, is not really Markdown, but rather
plain {% include wikipedia title="HTML" %}. However, Markdown does not have a
syntax for changing text color, and it supports mixing in HTML, so you can use
the technique above if you need text in different colors.

Certain kinds of content have dedicated pages of this guide:

* [Images](images)
* [Tables](tables)
* [Math expressions](math)
* [Source code and syntax highlighting](code)

## Liquid

On top of Markdown, the site uses a templating language called
[Liquid](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/) to make page editing
more convenient than with Markdown alone. Liquid tags look
like {% raw %}`{% ... %}` or `{{ ... }}`{% endraw %}. Many pages
on this site use Liquid to invoke functions called *includes*,
which enable insertion of images, figures, notices, and more.
(Think of this as: "I would like to *include* an image".)
Here are some examples:

<table><tbody>
<tr>
  <th>Markup</th>
  <th>Result</th>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>{% raw %}{% include yes %}{% endraw %}</code></td>
  <td>{% include yes %}</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>{% raw %}{% include person id="rasband" %}{% endraw %}</code></td>
  <td>{% include person id="rasband" %}</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>{% raw %}{% include icon name="imagej" %}{% endraw %}</code></td>
  <td>{% include icon name="imagej" %}</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

### Available includes

The following tables list all of this site's general-purpose includes:

#### Citations and footnotes

| Include                              | Purpose                    |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| [citation](citations)                | Insert a citation          |
| [cite](citations)                    | Insert a citation          |
| [publication](TODO)                  | Insert a citation by name  |
| [testimonial](TODO)                  | Insert a personal quote    |

#### Linking

| Include                           | Purpose                              |
|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| [link-banner](TODO)               | Insert a large, obvious link         |
| [github](linking#github)          | Link to a resource on GitHub         |
| [javadoc](linking#javadoc)        | Link to a javadoc resource           |
| [matlab](TODO)                    | Link to MATLAB documentation         |
| [maven](linking#maven)            | Link to Maven artifacts              |
| [person](people)                  | Link to a person's user page         |
| [person-list](people#lists)       | Link to a list of user pages         |
| [scholar](TODO)                   | Link to an article on Google Scholar |
| [wikipedia](linking#wikipedia)    | Link to a Wikipedia page             |

#### Symbols

| Include                           | Purpose                    |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------|
| [bc](menu-paths)                  | Insert a menu breadcrumb   |
| [button](buttons)                 | Insert a button            |
| [key](keys)                       | Insert a keyboard shortcut |
| [icon](icons)                     | Insert icons               |
| [yes](TODO)                       | Insert a checkmark icon    |
| [no](TODO)                        | Insert an X icon           |

#### Media

| Include                                      | Purpose                    |
|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| [img](images#images)                         | Insert an image            |
| [gallery](images#image-galleries)            | Insert an image gallery    |
| [video](videos)                              | Embed a video              |

#### Notices

| Include                              | Purpose                               |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| [notice](notices)                    | Insert an informational notice banner |
| [aside](TODO)                        | Float a right sidebar with commentary |

#### Source code

| Include                              | Purpose                          |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| [github-embed](TODO)                 | Embed a code snippet from GitHub |
| [code-example](TODO)                 | Side-by-side code + result       |

#### Miscellaneous

| Include                              | Purpose                              |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| [quiz](TODO)                         | Insert a Q&A with hidden answer      |
| [timeline](TODO)                     | Insert a horizontal timeline         |
| [tooltip](TODO)                      | Add a tooltip appearing on mouseover |
| [echo](TODO)                         | For debugging                        |

#### TO CHANGE

| Include                                      | What needs to happen               |
|----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| [thumbnail](TODO)                            | Merge with img include             |
| [thumbnail-link](TODO)                       | Merge with img include             |
| [info-box](notices#info-box)                 | Delete after migrating to statbox  |
| [clear](TODO)                                | Delete after purging all floats    |
| [project](TODO)                              | Delete after improving statbox     |

Commit message:

Fix/remove broken internal page links

_pages/editing/index.md, after:

---
title: Editing the Wiki
layout: page
section: Support:Editing the Wiki
nav-links: true
nav-title: Introduction
---

This page explains how to write and edit wiki pages. The simplest way to create
or modify a page is using GitHub's online file editor. Each page has an "Edit
page" link at the top right with a direct link to this interface.

{% include notice icon="tech" content="Advanced users can make edits via a local clone of the site repository; see the [advanced editing guide](/editing/advanced) for setup instructions." %}

# Creating a new page

Let's dive in to how to create a new page on the site.
If you are looking to edit an existing page, skip to
[adding and editing page content](#adding-and-editing-page-content) below.

1.  Navigate to the
    [pages section](https://github.com/imagej/imagej.github.io/tree/main/_pages)
    of the repository.
    Click {% include button label="Add file" %} then
    {% include button label="Create new file" %} from the drop-down:

    {% include img align="center" src="help/create-page-etw" %}

2.  Add a name for your file. **Note: this is not the page title;** the page
    title will be applied in the next section, front matter. File names should
    be all lower case, use the file extension `.md`, avoid symbols and spaces,
    and separate words using dashes (`-`):

    {% include img align="center" src="help/name-your-file" style="border: 1px solid #aaa" %}

## Front matter

Every page begins with a block of *front matter*: a sequence of parameters that
configure your page. Without the front matter, your page will not render
correctly. The following table lists front matter fields you can use:

|       **Field** | **Purpose** |
|----------------:|:------------|
|       **title** | The title of your page. This is the only required field. |
| **description** | A short description of your page. Also used for the site's search engine. When omitted, the first sentence of the page content is used. |
|     **section** | Main menu section that should be open when this page first loads, if any. Nested sections to expand should be separated by colons (`:`). For example, this page's section is `Help:Editing the Wiki`. |
|  **categories** | List of categories to which the page belongs. Must be enclosed in square brackets (`[` and `]`). |
|       *statbox* | The "Vital statistics" sidebar supports quite a few fields; see [this comment](https://github.com/imagej/imagej.github.io/blob/main/_includes/statbox#L30-L72) for a list. Including at least one of these fields will cause the statbox to appear; otherwise, there will be no statbox for the page. |

Below is a minimal example front matter block. You can copy and paste this code
into the editor of a new page (see above). Replace `My Awesome Page` with the
title for the new page.

```
---
title: My Awesome Page
---
```

# Adding and editing page content

This section covers how to populate the *content* of your page.

## Markdown

{% include wikipedia title="Markdown" %} is plain-text syntax formatting,
allowing you to easily and cleanly modify text with italics, bold, ordered
or bulleted lists, etc. This wiki uses
[GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) (GFM);
a basic GFM guide can be found
[here](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

Here are some common kinds of text formatting:

| Formatting                               | Markup                                     |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| *italic text*                            | `*italic text*`                            |
| **bold text**                            | `**bold text**`                            |
| ***bold and italic text***               | `***bold and italic text***`               |
| `fixed width text/code`                  | <code>`fixed width text/code`</code>       |
| ~~struck-out text~~                      | `~~struck-out text~~`                      |
| [Hyperlink](https://example.com/)        | `[Hyperlink](https://example.com/)`        |
| <span style="color: red">red text</span> | `<span style="color: red">red text</span>` |

Note that the last example, colored text, is not really Markdown, but rather
plain {% include wikipedia title="HTML" %}. However, Markdown does not have a
syntax for changing text color, and it supports mixing in HTML, so you can use
the technique above if you need text in different colors.

Certain kinds of content have dedicated pages of this guide:

* [Images](images)
* [Tables](tables)
* [Math expressions](math)
* [Source code and syntax highlighting](code)

## Liquid

On top of Markdown, the site uses a templating language called
[Liquid](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/) to make page editing
more convenient than with Markdown alone. Liquid tags look
like {% raw %}`{% ... %}` or `{{ ... }}`{% endraw %}. Many pages
on this site use Liquid to invoke functions called *includes*,
which enable insertion of images, figures, notices, and more.
(Think of this as: "I would like to *include* an image".)
Here are some examples:

<table><tbody>
<tr>
  <th>Markup</th>
  <th>Result</th>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>{% raw %}{% include yes %}{% endraw %}</code></td>
  <td>{% include yes %}</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>{% raw %}{% include person id="rasband" %}{% endraw %}</code></td>
  <td>{% include person id="rasband" %}</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>{% raw %}{% include icon name="imagej" %}{% endraw %}</code></td>
  <td>{% include icon name="imagej" %}</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

### Available includes

The following tables list all of this site's general-purpose includes:

#### Citations and footnotes

| Include                              | Purpose                    |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| [citation](citations)                | Insert a citation          |
| [cite](citations)                    | Insert a citation          |
|  publication (TODO)                  | Insert a citation by name  |
|  testimonial (TODO)                  | Insert a personal quote    |

#### Linking

| Include                           | Purpose                              |
|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|  link-banner (TODO)               | Insert a large, obvious link         |
| [github](linking#github)          | Link to a resource on GitHub         |
| [javadoc](linking#javadoc)        | Link to a javadoc resource           |
|  matlab (TODO)                    | Link to MATLAB documentation         |
| [maven](linking#maven)            | Link to Maven artifacts              |
|  scholar (TODO)                   | Link to an article on Google Scholar |
| [wikipedia](linking#wikipedia)    | Link to a Wikipedia page             |

#### Symbols

| Include                           | Purpose                    |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------|
| [bc](menu-paths)                  | Insert a menu breadcrumb   |
| [button](buttons)                 | Insert a button            |
| [key](keys)                       | Insert a keyboard shortcut |
| [icon](icons)                     | Insert icons               |
|  yes (TODO)                       | Insert a checkmark icon    |
|  no (TODO)                        | Insert an X icon           |

#### Media

| Include                                      | Purpose                    |
|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| [img](images)                                | Insert an image            |
| [gallery](images#image-galleries)            | Insert an image gallery    |
| [video](videos)                              | Embed a video              |

#### Notices

| Include                              | Purpose                               |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| [notice](notices)                    | Insert an informational notice banner |
|  aside (TODO)                        | Float a right sidebar with commentary |

#### Source code

| Include                              | Purpose                          |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
|  github-embed (TODO)                 | Embed a code snippet from GitHub |
|  code-example (TODO)                 | Side-by-side code + result       |

#### Miscellaneous

| Include                              | Purpose                              |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|  quiz (TODO)                         | Insert a Q&A with hidden answer      |
|  timeline (TODO)                     | Insert a horizontal timeline         |
|  tooltip (TODO)                      | Add a tooltip appearing on mouseover |
|  echo (TODO)                         | For debugging                        |

#### TO CHANGE

| Include                                      | What needs to happen               |
|----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
|  thumbnail (TODO)                            | Merge with img include             |
|  thumbnail-link (TODO)                       | Merge with img include             |
|  info-box                                    | Delete after migrating to statbox  |
|  clear (TODO)                                | Delete after purging all floats    |
|  project (TODO)                              | Delete after improving statbox     |
|  person                  | Person pages not yet formalized         |
|  person-list       | Person pages not yet formalized         |
