---
autogenerated: true
title: Building MM on Windows
layout: page
---

# Holding pen

No longer relevant?

\====Required open source libraries==== (See the "Building the full
source in one step" section below as a faster alternative before
downloading each of these separately.) In addition to software tools you
will need to install the following software packages in the
\<root\>/projects/3rdparty directory: \* SWIG (using version 2.0.0 as of
8/2/2011). Place it in "\<root\>/projects/3rdparty/swig" subdirectory
(Download from http://www.swig.org/download.html -\> all releases,
extract to \<root\>/projects/3rdparty and install with swig.exe.) \* The
INPOUT32 library. Place it in "\<root\>/projects/3rdparty/inpout32"
subdirectory. (Download from http://www.logix4u.net/, extract, and build
the library files. After building the inpout32 project you need to copy
the inpout32.dll to \<root\>/micromanager1.4/bin, because this dll is
required at run-time.) \* Boost 1.42. Download Boost and place it in the
"\<root\>/projects/3rdparty/boost" subdirectory. The easy way to do this
is as follows: 1. In a command prompt, create and then cd to
\<root\>/projects/3rdparty/boost, if this directory is not already a
subversion working copy, issue the following command (assuming you've
got subversion in your command path): svn co
http://svn.boost.org/svn/boost/tags/release/Boost\_1\_42\_0/ . 2. After
boost has been downloaded, to build the bjam tool, in the
\<root\>/projects/3rdparty/boost directory issue: bootstrap On Windows 7
64-bit this may fail with a message in bjam.log: ERROR: Cannot determine
the location of the VS Common Tools folder. This can happen if \`reg' is
not found, so add C:\\Windows\\SysWOW64 to your PATH 3. After the
bjam.exe tool is built, issue: .\\bjam --build-type=complete This step
will take a while so go make yourself a cup of tea ;) 4. The result will
be a set of libraries with the library type and threading model encoded
in the library name, all headers will be in
\<root\>\\projects\\3rdparty\\boost\\boost and the libraries will be in
\<root\>\\projects\\3rdparty\\boost\\stage\\lib [Tim D.
Smith](User:Tim_D._Smith "wikilink") 18:51, 1 December 2012 (PST)
