---
autogenerated: true
title: Pco
layout: page
---

Since 1987, PCO was founded with the objective to develop and to produce
specialized fast and sensitive video camera systems, mainly for
scientific applications. Meanwhile the product range of PCO cameras
covers digital camera systems with high dynamic range, high resolution,
high speed and low noise, which are sold in the scientific and
industrial market all over the world.

Currently PCO is one of the leading manufacturers of scientific cameras.
Worldwide representatives, together with our own sales department and
technical support assure that PCO keeps in touch with our customers and
their needs. The actual wide range of specialized camera systems is the
result of technical challenge and product specific know-how. A design
according to advanced techniques, a high standard of production, and
strict quality controls guaranty a reliable operation of the cameras.
Our own developments in conjunction with an excellent contact to leading
manufacturers of image sensors ensure our access to state-of-the-art
CCD- and CMOS-technology for our cameras.

Since 2001, PCO is located in its own facility building in Kelheim at
the shore of the beautiful and international river Danube. Here in the
county Bavaria, which is well known for its excellent support and
conditions for high technology companies, we share the benefits of the
simple access to high performance products and services in the
surrounding area. Kelheim itself is a very old town, founded at the
confluence of the Danube and the Altmühl, that has been converted into
the Rhine-Main-Danube bypass channel for water transport. It is the
heart of a beautiful river and forest covered lime plateau landscape.
