---
autogenerated: true
title: Basulab.nyu
layout: page
---

I grew up in Calcutta, India and went to Presidency College, one of the
country’s oldest institutions of western education, to earn my bachelors
degree in Physiology (B.Sc. Hon.’s). A whole year of our BSc curriculum
was dedicated to neurophysiology and biophysics and this is where I
developed my fascination for neuroscience, specifically synaptic
physiology. My tryst with hands on neuroscience research began with an
undergraduate summer project with Dr. Rohit Mittal at the Tata Institute
of Fundamental Research in Mumbai, India exploring the presynaptic
interactions of endocytosis protein Dynamin.

In the fall of 2002, I went on to pursue graduate studies in
Neuroscience at the International Max Planck Research School, Georg
August University, Göttingen, Germany, a hub for research in synaptic
transmission and the birthplace of patch clamp electrophysiology.
Learning how to patch neurons to look at Ca2+ dependent vesicular
release probability during my lab rotation was a technological
revelation for me. In 2003, soon after I started my PhD thesis project,
my primary advisor Dr. Christian Rosenmund moved his lab from the Max
Planck Institute (MPI) for Biophysical Chemistry, Germany to Baylor
College of Medicine in Houston, Texas. I stayed on in Dr. Erwin Neher’s
research group at the MPI to finish a Masters degree from the Max Planck
Neuroscience program, developing a biophysical method to assess the
kinetics of neurotransmitter release.

In 2004, I enrolled in the Neuroscience Graduate program at Baylor
College of Medicine, and started my PhD thesis in Dr. Rosenmund’s lab.
The graduate program and breadth and depth of interdisciplinary research
at Baylor College of Medicine greatly inspired my thinking as a
scientist. My graduate research focused on molecular mechanisms of
synaptic vesicle release and short-term plasticity in hippocampal
cultured neurons, in particular the structure-function analysis of
presynaptic priming factor munc13.

I realized that moving forward, I wanted to study activity dependent
changes in synaptic transmission in neural circuits to better understand
the processes of learning and memory.

At the end of 2007, I moved to New York to join Dr. Steven Siegelbaum’s
laboratory at Columbia University for my post-doctoral training. I have
examined how excitatory and inhibitory circuits interact to shape
dendritic integration and cortico-hippocampal input-timing-dependent
plasticity in hippocampal slices. The stimulating Columbia Neuroscience
research community has created an excellent platform for my independent
research career. My training here has been intellectually formative for
my research goals of understanding how activity in neural circuits
translates to learning behaviors. Presently I am assessing how
long-range inhibition contributes to sensory coding and learning in
awake behaving mice.

Starting January of 2015, I shall be joining the Neuroscience Institute
and the Department of Neuroscience and Physiology in New York University
as a tenure-track Assistant Professor.

I am excited to be part of the invigorating Neuroscience ecosystem at
NYU, where research is being driven towards its cutting edge of scaling
functional dynamics within synapses, neurons, neural circuits and
network assemblies.
