---
autogenerated: true
title: P.nanda
redirect_from: /wiki/User:P.nanda
layout: page
---

## About

My name is Pariksheet Nanda and you're probably reading this to find out
who I am and/or why I care so much about µManager.

The short version is: I love programming; I first got involved with the
software freedom culture (mostly Gentoo GNU/Linux) in the months between
graduating and finding employment at Andor, and so µManager allowed me
to reconcile my hobbies with my professional life.

I got my college degree in Electrical Engineering, and then joined Andor
Technology as a Support Engineer. I worked briefly with the camera and
spectroscopy division for a few months before settling into the
company's newer, exciting microscopy systems division. It was fun not
only because of traveling for field work and being able to meet clients
face-to-face, but also being able to work closely with nearly all
departments of the company with their highly motivated people. After 6
years, the US systems division staff had grown 4 times, and it was a
good time to leave for academia with so many wonderful people to
continue the journey. Having PhD students and professors as clients
showed me the edifying experience that the educational environment has
on character, and for that my own academic interests I joined the
academic research community at a microscopy development lab.

## Wiki Pages

These are the wiki pages I contribute to and maintain:

-   DeviceAdapters
    -   [Andor EM/CCD cameras](/Andor)
    -   [Andor sCMOS cameras](/Andor_SDK3)
    -   [Andor Laser Combiner](/AndorLaserCombiner)
    -   [Andor MicroPoint](/MicroPoint)
    -   [Andor Mosaic](/Mosaic3)
    -   [Arduino](/Arduino)
-   Plugins
    -   [Projector plugin](/Projector_Plugin)
-   General Documentation
    -   [Article comparing µManager with other microscopy
        software](/Comparison_with_other_microscopy_software)
    -   [Alignment of Yokogawa spinning disk](/CSU_Alignment)
    -   [Installation report of UT Southwestern
        Confocal](/Setup_UTSW_SD)
-   Operating Systems
    -   [Personal computer setup](/Personal_computer_setup)
    -   [Linux installation from source
        (Gentoo)](/Linux_installation_from_source_(Gentoo))
    -   [Linux installation from source
        (Ubuntu)](/Linux_installation_from_source_(Ubuntu))

## Systems Setup

Over the years, I've helped a number of students and professors get
setup with µManager:

| Institution                                          | Principal Investigator |
|------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|
| Connecticut, University of                           | Dave Knecht            |
| California, University of, at San Diego              | Karen Oegema           |
| Carnegie Mellon                                      | Marcel Bruchez         |
| National Institutes of Environmental Health Sciences | Jerry Yakel            |
| Cornell, Weill Medical College                       | Joel Baumgart          |
| Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center               | Daniel Heller          |
| Luisiana State University Health Science Center      | Edward Wojcik          |
| North Carolina, University of, at Chapel Hill        | Anne Taylor            |
| Texas, University of, Southwestern Medical Center    | Kate Luby-Phelps       |
| Cornell University                                   | Peng Chen              |
| Michigan, University of                              | Allen Liu              |
| Sandia National Labs at Livermore                    | Carl Hayden            |
| Harvard Medical School                               | Rachel Wilson          |
| Yale University                                      | Derek Toomre           |
| Ohio State University                                | Tony Brown             |

## Acknowledgements

I wish to thank Steve Ikeda (NIH) for training me on what practical
setups for Groups and Presets should be, since that generic mode of
interface organization was new to me. Organizing Device Properties in a
sane way paid off many times over in helping other users set up their
systems.

I also would like to thank Paul Forscher (Yale) for teaching me the
canonical troubleshooting approach (the nabble search web link), showing
me how he setup and ran his systems with Matlab, and his extensive
involvement and patience in wading through intermittent hardware
communication problems.

Finally, I would like to thank Nico Stuurman (UCSF) for accepting my
patches and granting me repository access to maintain a part of the C++
code. Contributing code to an active project I really cared about was a
huge confidence boost for me and I felt like I made it as a free
software programmer, as well as become part of the community.
