---
autogenerated: true
title: Russell Taylor
redirect_from: /wiki/User:Russell_Taylor
layout: page
---

Excerpted from <http://www.cs.unc.edu/~taylorr>: Russell Taylor is a
Research Professor of Computer Science, Physics & Astronomy, and Applied
& Materials Sciences at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
He is the co-director of the UNC NIH National Research Resource for
Computer Integrated Systems for Microscopy and Manipulation. His
research interests include Scientific Visualization, Distributed Virtual
Worlds, Haptic Display, and Interactive 3D Computer Graphics. All of
these come together in his role as the director of the computer science
team in the UNC Nanoscale Science Research Group, which is a team of
Physicists, Chemists, Gene Therapists, Biologists, Library Scientists,
Perceptual Psychologists, and Computer Scientists working together to
develop improved interfaces for scanned-probe and other microscopes.
These tools enable scientists to see, touch and manipulate
nanometer-scale objects like viruses and carbon nanotubes, either from
within the laboratory or across a computer network.

Russell teaches a course on Visualization in the Sciences each spring,
aimed at both computer scientists and natural scientists. It is being
offered as Comp 715, Physics 715, and Materials Science 715 in the
spring of 2011 (also taught in the springs of 2010, 2009, 2008 and
2007). It was cross-listed as Comp 215, Physics 215, and Materials
Science 215 in the spring of 2006 (co-taught by David Borland as the
cross-listed CSE 704 at NC A&T) and 2005. It was taught as Comp 290-069
in the fall semesters of 2003, 2002, and 2001.

He is the PI for the Biomedical Analysis and Simulation Supercomputer
located in computer science for use by NIH-funded researchers across
campus and at partner institutions.

He is also the principal maintainer of the Virtual Reality Peripheral
Network (VRPN) library. This public-domain software system provides
local or networked access to various tracking, button, joystick, sound
and other devices used in virtual-reality systems.
