---
autogenerated: true
title: Trevor DeVaney
layout: page
---

I was born in London in 1959 in the London University Hospital in Gower
Street London Great Britain. After enjoying a comprehensive education at
Simon Langton Grammar School in Canterbury I continued my efforts at
further education on a Day-Release basis as technician at the University
of London's agricultural college Botany Department in Wye Kent where I
was responsible for the teaching laboratories and some research. I then
pursued my academic career further in that I read at University College
Cardiff, Microbiology and Genetics for which I obtained my joint degree
with honours. I also have a Higher National Certificate in Applied
Biology specializing in microbiology as well as an O.N.C. in Chemistry
Specialising in industrial chemistry that I obtained during my time in
Wye. I have resided since 1984 in Austria. I married Silvia on the 21
October 2000 and gained three wonderful children Monica, Valentina and
Stefanie. I qualified for my PhD at University College Cardiff in 2004
and have published several articles on the investigation of cancer
invasiveness in vitro.

Scientific publications, presentations and CV in German

Curriculum, Presentations and Publications in English

In 2007 I Patented an invention enabling phase contrast microscopy of
living cells in 6 to 96 well plates which eliminates the effects of the
meniscus induced loss of phase contrast.

A more explicit explanation can be found here from a poster presented at
the Linz Congress

Recent Publications:-

-   -   Habermann, W; Schmid, C; Neumann, K; Devaney, T; Hammer, HF

Reflux Symptom Index and Reflux Finding Score in Otolaryngologic
Practice. J Voice. 2011; 108(8b):

-   -   Lohberger, B; Payer, M; Rinner, B; Bartmann, C; Stadelmeyer, E;
        Traunwieser, E; Devaney, T; Jakse, N; Leithner, A; Windhager, R

Human Intraoral Harvested Mesenchymal Stem Cells: Characterization,
Multilineage Differentiation Analysis, and 3-Dimensional Migration of
Natural Bone Mineral and Tricalcium Phosphate Scaffolds. J Oral
Maxillofac Surg. 2011

-   -   Bernhart, E; Kollroser, M; Rechberger, G; Reicher, H; Heinemann,
        A; Schratl, P; Hallström, S; Wintersperger, A; Nusshold, C;
        Devaney, T; Zorn-Pauly, K; Malli, R; Graier, W; Malle, E;
        Sattler, W

Lysophosphatidic acid receptor activation affects the C13NJ microglia
cell line proteome leading to alterations in glycolysis, motility, and
cytoskeletal architecture. Proteomics. 2010; 10(1): 141-158

-   -   Wagner, V; Stadelmeyer, E; Riederer, M; Regitnig, P; Gorischek,
        A; Devaney, T; Schmidt, K; Tritthart, HA; Hirschberg, K;
        Bauernhofer, T; Schreibmayer, W

Cloning and characterisation of GIRK1 variants resulting from
alternative RNA editing of the KCNJ3 gene transcript in a human breast
cancer cell line. J Cell Biochem. 2010; 110(3): 598-608.

Rezania,S; Chouyang,L; Gorischek,A; Devaney,T; Regitnig,P;
Bauernhofer,T; Schreibmayer,W;

Influence of G-protein activated inwardly rectifying potassium channel
on vital parameters of breast cancer cells Doctoral Day; 4.11.2011;
2011. \[Poster\]

Tritthart, HA; DeVaney, TTJ

A new biophysical method to measure cancer cell motility and
invasiveness to evaluate new anticancer compounds.

Okt, 2009; Dykabiri, Turkey. 2009. \[Keynote lecture\]  

Wagner, V; Gorischek, A; Stadelmeyer, E; DeVaney, T; Schreibmayer, W;
Bauernhofer, T

Expression and characterization of G-protein activated potassium channel
splice variants. joint ZMF & Doctorial Day ; NOV 4-5, 2009; Graz,
AUSTRIA. 2009. \[Poster\]

DeVaney, TTJ; Reinisch, S

Growth of squamous carcinoma cells under the influence of
chemotherapeutic agents Altex2008; 25(1):-15th Congress on Alternatives
to Animal Testing – Linz 2008& 12th Annual Meeting of MEGAT – Middle
European Society for Alternative Methods to Animal Testing ; 19.21 Sept
2008; Linz. \[Poster\]

DeVaney, TTJ; Sax, W; Platzer, F

Correction of optical refraction artefacts in multiwell plates for live
cell imaging. Focus on Microscopy 2008
<http://www.focusonmicroscopy.org/2008/PDF/164_DeVaney.pdf> 2008;
152.-Focus on Microscopy 2008. ; April 13-16, 2008; Osaka, Japan. \[Oral
Communication\]

Research in progress Metastasierung und Zellmotilität Die Zellmotilität
ist ein entscheidender Faktor im Prozess der Metastasierung. In diesem
Bereich erforschen wir die involvierten zellulären Prozesse und die
resultierenden Effekte aus der Anwendung von Chemotherapeutika.

Spheroid confrontation invasion assays 3D Spheroid
Konfrontations-Untersuchungen ermöglichen die Ermittlung des Grades des
metastatischen Potentials von verschiedenen Zelllinien ohne den Einsatz
von Tierversuchen. Unter Anwendung von digitaler Bildbearbeitung können
die aus diesen Untersuchungen gewonnenen Daten zur Überwachung und
Evaluierung von Tumoren und deren Behandlung dienen.

Analyse von Wachstum auf synthetischem Knochenersatz Unter Verwendung
von 3D Rekonstruktion und timelapse Mikroskopie kann die Kolonisation
von synthetischen Knochenersätzen durch Osteoblasten direkt beobachtet
werden.

Analyse von Konfokalbildern Konfokale Bildgebung und Dekonvolution bei
der Weiterverarbeitung ermöglichen hochauflösende Bildgebung der zu
untersuchenden Gewebe. Der Einsatz von Laserabtatstung ermöglicht die
Rekonstruktion von dreidimensionalen Bildern, welche ein höheres Maß an
Information über zelluläre Prozesse liefern, die eine maßgebliche Rolle
bei Bewegung und invasiven Vorgängen in Gewebe und Strukturen spielen.

Quantitative Analyse von 3D-Invasion Mittels Computeranalysen von
subjektiven Entscheidungen von Experten können die qualitativen
Entscheidungen quantifiziert werden und entsprechende Analysealgorithmen
entwickelt werden.

Cell motility and chemotoxic agents Cell movements in and through
tissues
